https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=0.0s	0.0	 It was just like one of those moments where we saw it at the same time and we're standing by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5.8s	5.8	 tail and the snake was so big that, I mean, this must've been a 25 foot Anaconda, dead asleep,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=15.2s	15.2	 with a, probably a 16 foot Anaconda like sprawled across her. And they're laying in the starlight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=20.7s	20.7	 and we're floating on top of a lake standing there in the middle of the Amazon and JJ just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=26.6s	26.6	 I could feel the blood drain out of his face. And as like however old I was, maybe 20 years old,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=33.2s	33.2	 I just said, if we could somehow show people this, we'll be on the front cover in National
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=39.8s	39.8	 Geographic and we can protect all the jungle that we want. And so I tried to catch it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=47.9s	47.9	 So I jumped on the snake and the only measurement I have of this animal is that when I wrapped my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=52.2s	52.2	 arms around it, I couldn't touch my fingers. And so I was, my feet were dragging and to her credit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=58.5s	58.5	 this Anaconda did not turn around and eat me because her head was this big. And she went and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=64.2s	64.2	 she reached the edge of the grass island and she starts plunging into the dark. And so I'm watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=69.8s	69.8	 the stars vibrate as this Anaconda is going and I had to make the choice of either going head first
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=76.6s	76.6	 down into the black, which no thank you, or stopping and just keeping my hand on this thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=83.1s	83.1	 as it raced by me. And I just felt the scales and the muscle and the power go by and then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=87.8s	87.8	 eventually taper down to the tail until it slipped away into the darkness. And I was laying there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=92.4s	92.4	 just panting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=96.0s	96.0	 The following is a conversation with Paul Rosley, a conservationist, explorer, author, filmmaker,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=102.3s	102.3	 and real life Tarzan. Since for much of the past 17 years, Paul has lived deep in the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=108.5s	108.5	 rainforest, protecting endangered species and trees from poachers, loggers, and foreign nations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=114.2s	114.2	 funding them. He is the founder of Jungle Keepers, which today protects over 50,000 acres
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=121.0s	121.0	 of threatened habitat. And Paul is one of the most incredible human beings I've ever met.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=128.0s	128.0	 I hope to travel with him in the Amazon jungle one day, because in his eyes, I saw a truth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=134.6s	134.6	 that can only be discovered directly by spending time among the immensity and power of nature at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=140.7s	140.7	 its purest. This is the Lex Friedman podcast. To support it, please check out our sponsors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=146.8s	146.8	 in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Paul Rosley.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=152.9s	152.9	 In 2006, at 18 years old, you fled New York and traveled to the Amazon. This started a journey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=159.8s	159.8	 that I think lasts to this day. Tell me about this first leap. What in your heart pulled you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=165.1s	165.1	 towards the Amazon jungle? From the time I was three years old, I'd say. It was dinosaurs,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=173.0s	173.0	 wildlife, documentaries, steve-er, when you name it. And when my parents said nature versus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=179.4s	179.4	 nurture, they nurtured my nature. I was always just drawn to streams, forests. I wanted to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=185.4s	185.4	 explore where the little creek led. I wanted to see the turtles and the snakes. And so,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=190.0s	190.0	 I was a kid that hated school, did not get along with school. I was dyslexic and didn't know it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=194.6s	194.6	 undiagnosed. I didn't read until I was like 10 years old, like way behind. And so for me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=200.3s	200.3	 the forest was safety. I remember one time in first grade, they had you doing those multiplication
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=206.1s	206.1	 sheets. That was pure hell for me. And so, I actually got so upset that I couldn't do it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=211.0s	211.0	 that I ran out the classroom, ran out the door and went to the nearest woods. And I stayed there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=216.1s	216.1	 because that was safe. And so for me, once I got to the point where I was like, high school isn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=220.2s	220.2	 working out, I had incredibly supportive parents that were like, look, just get out, take your GED,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=226.2s	226.2	 get out of high school after 10th grade. You got to go to college, but start doing something you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=231.4s	231.4	 love. And so, I saved up and bought a ticket to the Amazon and met some indigenous guys. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=237.8s	237.8	 the second I walked in that forest, it was like, it's like the first scene in Jurassic Park when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=242.0s	242.0	 they see the dinosaurs and they go, oh, this is it. I walked in there and just, I looked at those
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=246.1s	246.1	 giant trees. I saw leaf cutter ants in real life and I just went, oh, it was like the movie just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=251.4s	251.4	 started. That was when I came online. Can you put into words, what is it about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=257.5s	257.5	 that place that felt like home? What was it that drew you? What aspect of nature, the streams,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=263.6s	263.6	 the water, the forest, the jungle, the animals, what drew you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=269.8s	269.8	 It's just, it's always been in my blood. I mean, for any forest, I mean, whether it's, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=274.1s	274.1	 upstate New York or India or Borneo, but the Amazon, it's all of that turned up to this level
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=281.2s	281.2	 where everything is superlatively diverse. You know, you have more plants and animals than anywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=285.9s	285.9	 else on earth, not just now, but in the entire fossil record. It's the Andes Amazon interface.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=291.3s	291.3	 There's just, that's terrestrially, that's where it is. That's the greatest library of life that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=295.5s	295.5	 has ever existed. And so you're just, you're so stimulated. You're so overwhelmed with color
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=300.5s	300.5	 and diversity and beauty and this overwhelming sense of natural majesty of these, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=305.8s	305.8	 thousand year old trees and half the life is up in the canopy of those trees. We don't even have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=310.7s	310.7	 access to it. There's stuff without names walking around on those branches. And it's like, it just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=315.7s	315.7	 takes you somewhere. And so going there, it was like, you know, the guys I met just opened the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=320.4s	320.4	 door and they were like, you know, how far do you want to go down the rabbit hole? How, how,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=323.7s	323.7	 how much of this do you want to see? You mentioned Steve Irwin, you list a bunch of heroes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=329.3s	329.3	 that you have. He's one of them. And you said that when you aren't sure about a decision,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=334.0s	334.0	 you ask yourself, uh, WWSD, what would Steve do? Why is that such a good heuristic for life? What
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=341.0s	341.0	 would Steve do? He's a human being that like everything we saw from Steve Irwin was positive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=347.2s	347.2	 Everything was with a smile on his face. If he was getting bitten by a reticulated Python,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=351.5s	351.5	 he was smiling. If he was, you know, getting destroyed in the news for feeding a crocodile
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=357.0s	357.0	 with his son too close, he was trying to explain to people why it's okay and why we have to love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=361.2s	361.2	 these animals. And everything was about love. Everything was about, you know, wildlife and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=365.6s	365.6	 protecting. And to me, a person like that, that where you only see positive things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=371.4s	371.4	 that's, that's a role model. And it's just like an endless curiosity and hunger to explore this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=376.0s	376.0	 this world of nature. Yeah. And then insatiable madness for, for, for wildlife. I mean, the guy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=381.0s	381.0	 was just so much fun. I got a, if it's okay, uh, read to you a few of your own words. You open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=389.3s	389.3	 the book, mother of God with the passage that I think beautifully paints a scene
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=393.4s	393.4	 of the Amazon basin. Before he died, Santiago Duran told me a secret. It was late at night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=399.2s	399.2	 in a palm thatched hut on a bank of the Tampa Pada river, deep in the southwestern corner of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=405.2s	405.2	 the Amazon basin. Besides the mud oven, two wild boar heads sizzling, sizzled in a cradle of embers,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=413.4s	413.4	 their protruding tusks curling in static agony as they cooked. The smell of burning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=421.1s	421.1	 secropia wood and cinched flesh filled the air.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=425.3s	425.3	 Woven basket containing monkey skulls hung from the rafters, where stars peeked through the gaps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=431.2s	431.2	 in the thatching. A pair of chickens huddled in the corner, conversing softly. We sat facing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=437.8s	437.8	 each other on sturdy benches across a table, hewn from a single cross section of some massive tree,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=444.7s	444.7	 now nearly consumed by termites. The song of a million insects and frogs filled the night.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=452.1s	452.1	 Santiago's cigarette trembled in the aged fingers as he leaned close over the candlelight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=456.9s	456.9	 to describe a place hidden in the jungle. That line, the songs of a million insects and frogs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=464.2s	464.2	 filled the night for some reason hit me. Um, what's it like sitting there conversing among
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=469.3s	469.3	 so many living creatures all around you? Every night in the jungle, you live in constant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=474.7s	474.7	 awareness of that out there in the darkness are literally millions of heartbeats around you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=482.4s	482.4	 And so like we exist in this, in this, you know, domesticated paved world most of the time. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=490.1s	490.1	 when you go out there past the roads and the, and the telephone poles and the hospitals and you make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=495.5s	495.5	 it out into earth, just wild earth. And there's no, there's no, there's not, it's not like this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=501.1s	501.1	 a national park. There's no rescue helicopter waiting to come get you. You are out there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=505.4s	505.4	 and you're surrounded at night by, I mean, there are snakes and jaguars and frogs and insects and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=511.7s	511.7	 all this stuff just crawling through the swamps and through the trees and through the branches.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=515.7s	515.7	 And we put on headlamps and go out into the night and just absolutely fall to our knees with wonder
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=521.0s	521.0	 of the things that we see. It's, it's absolutely incredible. And most of it doesn't make sounds.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=525.4s	525.4	 Like the insects do the insects do the frogs do you have some of the night birds making sounds,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=530.6s	530.6	 but a lot of it, everything has evolved to be silent, invisible. I mean, everything there is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=536.8s	536.8	 in the, on, on the list, like, like I, there's another line in mother of God where I said, like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=540.6s	540.6	 you know, like life is just like a temporary moment of stasis and like the churning recycling
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=545.1s	545.1	 death march. That is the Amazon. Like it's, it's been called the greatest natural battlefield on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=551.0s	551.0	 earth. I mean, if any, in any square acre, there's more stuff eating other things than anywhere else.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=556.4s	556.4	 And, and you go through a swamp in the Amazon and there's like, there's tarantulas floating on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=561.8s	561.8	 water. There's frogs in the trees. There's, there's, there's tadpoles hanging from leaves waiting to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=568.5s	568.5	 drop into the water. There's fish waiting to eat them. There's birds in the tree. You sit,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=572.6s	572.6	 you literally are surrounded by so many things that your brain can't process it. It's, it's just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=577.6s	577.6	 overwhelming life churning death march. Some of the creatures are waiting and some of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=586.6s	586.6	 are being a bit more proactive about it. What do you make of that churning death march that the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=595.0s	595.0	 amount of murder that's happening all around you at all scales, what is that? You know, we,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=599.9s	599.9	 we dramatize wars and the millions of people that were lost in world war two. Some of them tortured,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=606.6s	606.6	 some of them dying with a gun in hand, some of them civilians, but it's just millions of people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=615.2s	615.2	 What about the billions and billions and billions of organisms that are just being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=619.2s	619.2	 murdered all around you? Does that, do you, does that change your view of nature of life here?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=627.7s	627.7	 I've always kind of wondered like that. Like when you see like a, you know, wildebeest taken down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=631.7s	631.7	 by lions and, and eaten from behind while it's alive and it makes you question God,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=637.4s	637.4	 you know, you go, how could, how could, how could they let this happen?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=641.9s	641.9	 In the Amazon, I find personally that these natural processes make up almost a religion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=651.3s	651.3	 that it reminds you how temporary we are, that, you know, the, the, the botflies that are trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=657.4s	657.4	 to get into your skin and the mosquitoes that are trying to suck your blood and the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=661.5s	661.5	 you know, that when you sweat, you see, you see the, you literally can like hold out your arm and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=666.6s	666.6	 watch the condensation come off of your skin and rise up into the canopy and join the clouds and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=671.3s	671.3	 rain back down in the afternoon. And then you drink the river and start it all over again. And it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=675.7s	675.7	 like, it's flowing through you. So the Amazon reminds me that, that there's a lot that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=682.6s	682.6	 don't understand. And so when it comes to that overwhelming and collective murder, as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=687.7s	687.7	 Werner Herzog put it, it's just, it's just part of the show. It's part of the freak show of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=693.1s	693.1	 Amazonian night. So you, I, you in certain moments able to feel one with a mosquito that's trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=701.9s	701.9	 kill you slowly. One with the mosquito is a stretch. Is it always the enemy? What I mean is like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=709.0s	709.0	 you're part of the machine there, right? Yeah. And it's like fair play. It's like fair play. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=713.1s	713.1	 like we have bullet ants and like, you know, you get, you get nailed by a bullet ant and you just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=716.6s	716.6	 go, yeah, well, well done. Today's over. I'm going back to bed and I'm taking a pile of Tylenol.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=722.7s	722.7	 Do you think in that sense, when you're out there, are you a part of nature or you're separate from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=729.3s	729.3	 nature? Is man a part of nature or separate? I think that's what's so refreshing about it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=733.4s	733.4	 out there you truly are. And so whether we're bringing researchers or film crews or,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=738.9s	738.9	 or whether we're just out there ourselves on an expedition, you truly are part of nature. And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=745.4s	745.4	 one of the things that the, my team and I started doing when I became friends with these guys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=749.6s	749.6	 you know, this is a family of indigenous people from the community of Infierno and they took me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=755.0s	755.0	 in and as we got close, they started saying, you know, you can come with us on our like annual
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=761.0s	761.0	 hunting trip. And I went, okay. And it's four guys in a boat and you don't want to get your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=766.1s	766.1	 clothes wet. So we're all in like our boxers in a canoe with a motor going out past the places
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=771.6s	771.6	 that have names and you're out in the middle of the jungle. And the thing is like, when you're,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=777.0s	777.0	 when your motor breaks, you are so quickly reminded of the inerrant truths, like the things that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=786.6s	786.6	 nobody can argue with. And we live in such a human world where everything is debatable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=792.1s	792.1	 religion and politics and perspectives on everything. And then you get down to this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=795.6s	795.6	 point where it's like, if we don't figure something out, the river is going to rise and take the boat.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=802.3s	802.3	 That's the truth. And ain't nobody going to like argue with that. And it's like, to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=806.5s	806.5	 there's a beauty in that truth because then all of us are united there in that, in that truth against
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=811.5s	811.5	 like the natural facts around us. And so to me, that's a state where I feel very, very at home.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=818.7s	818.7	 And the Amazon is more efficient than most places on earth at swallowing you up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=824.2s	824.2	 God, yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=824.9s	824.9	 Okay. So just to linger on that, because you've spoken about Francisco de Aralana,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=833.3s	833.3	 who's this explorer in 1541 and 42 that sailed the length of the Amazon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=839.0s	839.0	 Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=839.4s	839.4	 Probably one of the first. And there's just a few things I should probably read. I should probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=845.0s	845.0	 find a good book on him because the guy seems like a gangster. Yes. There's some great books on him.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=849.5s	849.5	 So he sailed, he led the expedition that sailed all the way from one end to the other. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=856.7s	856.7	 like a rebuilding of a ship. Which is insanity. Yeah. Yeah. So because it speaks to the thing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=862.6s	862.6	 it's like nobody's going to come and rescue you. No. You have to, if your boat dies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=867.6s	867.6	 you got to have to rebuild it. Yeah. So they came down the Andes, entered in the headwaters
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=872.0s	872.0	 of the Amazon, constructed some sort of raft, boat, craft, something, and made it down the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=878.2s	878.2	 entire Amazon basin. Of course, his stories are the ones that led to the Amazon being called the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=883.4s	883.4	 Amazon because he reported tribes of women. He reported these large cities, places where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=887.8s	887.8	 tribes lived on farms of river turtles that they corralled and they lived off of that protein. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=892.8s	892.8	 then when they came out to the mouth of the Amazon, if I remember it correctly, that just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=896.5s	896.5	 through navigation and the stars, they were able to calculate where the way was back to Spain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=901.7s	901.7	 and make a boat seaworthy enough to bring them home. Incredible. Absolutely.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=908.2s	908.2	 Do people like that inspire you, your own journey? What gives you kind of strength
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=913.3s	913.3	 that in these harshest of times and harshest of conditions, you can persevere?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=919.7s	919.7	 Yeah. I mean, you look at the stories of people that are so, these stories of people that have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=923.8s	923.8	 overcome incredible suffering like that or like what Shackleton did or something like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=929.3s	929.3	 And so when your tent gets washed away, you go to sleep and the river rises 20 feet and washes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=935.5s	935.5	 away your tent and you crawl out and all you have is a machete and a headlamp, literally no bag,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=940.1s	940.1	 no food, no nothing. And you go, wow, the next six days before I reach back to a town is going to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=945.5s	945.5	 just pure hell. I'm going to be sleeping on the ground covered in ants, destroyed by mosquitoes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=950.6s	950.6	 And then it becomes, am I in any capacity, any percentage as tough and resilient as the people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=958.6s	958.6	 that I've read about that have made it through things far worse than this? And then that's the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=962.4s	962.4	 game you play. What goes through your head? All you got is the headlamp and the machete. So are you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=968.4s	968.4	 thinking at all? I've gotten a chance to interact quite a lot with Elon Musk and he constantly puts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=974.9s	974.9	 out fires having to run several companies. There's never a whiny deliberation about issues.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=982.8s	982.8	 You just always one step forward, how to solve, this is the situation, how do you solve it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=989.2s	989.2	 Or do you also have a self-motivating, almost egotistical, like I'm a bad motherfucker.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=996.5s	996.5	 I can handle anything. Almost like trying to fake it till you make it kind of thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1001.1s	1001.1	 There was a little bit of that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1002.2s	1002.2	 Your machete and the hell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1003.6s	1003.6	 I got a sword. There may have been a little bit of that when I was 14, 15 years old. I'd have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1013.1s	1013.1	 a hunting knife and my dog and I'd go out into the woods, the cat skills and survive for a weekend.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1018.2s	1018.2	 My rule was one match. You get one match and you got to make shelter and then I'd bring a steak and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1024.8s	1024.8	 make a fire and stuff. At that point there may be with some ego, but in the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1029.4s	1029.4	 you get stripped down so completely that you... It's like that thing, watch the atheism leave
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1036.1s	1036.1	 everyone's body when they think they're about to die. It's like when you find yourself staring up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1041.3s	1041.3	 at the Amazon at night and you go, there is no hope of getting out of here. I was once lost in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1045.1s	1045.1	 a swamp where it took me days to get out of there and there was moments where I just said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1051.0s	1051.0	 this is clearly it. There's no ego there. There's just hope. You start realizing what you believe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1058.1s	1058.1	 and praying that you'll be okay and then trying to summon whatever you know about how to survive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1066.4s	1066.4	 and that's it. It's actually, again, it's a blissful state if you can walk that line between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1072.1s	1072.1	 adventure and tragedy and keep yourself right at that very, very fine line without going over.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1078.2s	1078.2	 Ever fear of death? Fear? Ever fear? Terror?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1082.4s	1082.4	 No, I don't want to die. I love the people in my life and there's a lot of things I want to do,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1088.6s	1088.6	 but every time I've been certain that I'm going to die, I've been very calm. Very calm and just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1097.0s	1097.0	 sort of like, okay, well, if this is how the movie goes, then this is how it goes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1100.4s	1100.4	 Almost accepting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1101.5s	1101.5	 Yeah, which is reassuring.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1104.4s	1104.4	 You mentioned Herzog just to venture down this road of death and fear and so on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1111.9s	1111.9	 There's been a few madmen like you in this world. He's documented a couple of them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1119.5s	1119.5	 What lessons do you draw from Grizzly Man or Into the Wild, those kinds of stories?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1125.3s	1125.3	 Were you ever afraid that you'd be one of those stories?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1128.6s	1128.6	 Oh yeah. I actually think that it's in Mother of God where I said I almost into the wilded myself.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1134.2s	1134.2	 I went out there and really I got so lost and so destroyed that I said this is going to be the next
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1139.9s	1139.9	 one. This is going to be the next story of some idiot kid from New York who went to the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1143.6s	1143.6	 thinking he was Percy Fawcett and then vanished. Because if you do vanish out there, your body's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1149.4s	1149.4	 going to be consumed in a matter of days, like two. If we see an animal dead on the trail,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1156.2s	1156.2	 you got dung beetles and fly larva and vultures and there's a whole pecking order. You get the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1160.9s	1160.9	 black vultures, the yellow vultures, the king vulture, they all come in. That thing is picked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1164.5s	1164.5	 clean in a couple of days.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1165.7s	1165.7	 What would be the creature that eats most of you in that situation?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1169.4s	1169.4	 Probably the vultures. Probably the vultures and the maggots. It's really quick. It's really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1175.5s	1175.5	 really quick. Even as far as you can't leave food out. If you have a piece of chicken, you say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1182.1s	1182.1	 I'll eat it in the morning. You leave it out. You can't do that. It's not good by morning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1187.0s	1187.0	 Grizzly Man, for example, because that's a beautiful story. It's both comical and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1192.8s	1192.8	 genius and especially the way Herzog tells it. First, do you like the way he told the story?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1197.4s	1197.4	 Do you like Herzog?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1198.3s	1198.3	 I do. I love Herzog and I love his documentary, The Burden of Dreams, which is in the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1204.3s	1204.3	 not very far from where I work. The sheer madness that you see this man undergoing of just trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1210.3s	1210.3	 to recreate hauling a boat over a mountain is wild. The extras that he hired to play the natives
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1220.6s	1220.6	 are the, I think they're Machiganga tribesmen and they just look like all the guys that I hang out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1227.2s	1227.2	 with. They're doing all this stuff in the jungle that months and months and months and you can just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1232.6s	1232.6	 see him deteriorating with madness because the jungle, your boat, you know how many times I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1237.5s	1237.5	 tied up a boat to the side of the river. This just happened a year and a half ago. I tied up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1242.0s	1242.0	 through COVID, I pretty much just lived in the jungle for a while and there was nobody there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1245.8s	1245.8	 and there was no support. I tied up my boat and the rain is just hammering. The universe is trying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1251.8s	1251.8	 to rip the earth in half. The rain is just going and the river is rising and I tied up the boat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1257.2s	1257.2	 then you go to sleep and you got to wake up every two hours to go check the boat and the boat is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1261.8s	1261.8	 thrashing back and forth. All night, every two hours, I'd wake up barefoot in driving rain,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1267.4s	1267.4	 golf ball raindrops and just go down and check the boat. Then by morning I was like, I fell asleep,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1273.0s	1273.0	 woke up, checked the boat and then I was like, I'm just going to go make coffee. I was so done. I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1276.9s	1276.9	 so at the end of my rope every time bailing the boat out and stuff. Then we got 15 minutes of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1282.4s	1282.4	 heavy rain that filled the boat, sank it. Now I'm stuck up river with no boat. It's like that type
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1288.3s	1288.3	 of thing where it's like, no matter how hard you try, the jungle is just like, listen,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1292.2s	1292.2	 you're nothing. You are nothing. It's that constant reminder. Herzog really threw himself into that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1299.6s	1299.6	 in that film and it's brilliant to watch. What do you think you meant by the line that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1304.7s	1304.7	 include in your book? It's a land that God, if he exists, has created in anger.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1313.5s	1313.5	 Said in German accent. Yeah. Overwhelming and collective murder.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1322.2s	1322.2	 So you didn't really appreciate the beauty of the murder.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1325.4s	1325.4	 I think he appreciated it, but to him it was very dark. I think he saw the darkness in it and that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1332.0s	1332.0	 there. It sure is. As soon as you do ayahuasca, that door opens and you see the darkness because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1336.5s	1336.5	 that brings you right into the jungle, the heart of it. But I think that for him, it is, I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1343.5s	1343.5	 that darkness is something that he embraces and that he loves. There's another film of his, and I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1348.5s	1348.5	 don't know if this is accurate, but my memory has it, that there's a penguin and I think it's in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1353.4s	1353.4	 Antarctica and the penguin's going in the wrong direction, away from the ocean. I feel like he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1359.4s	1359.4	 goes on this monologue about how he's just had enough. This one penguin is just marching towards.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1368.1s	1368.1	 I remember that clip from that documentary and what Werner says is that the penguin is deranged.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1375.9s	1375.9	 He's lost his mind. I took offense to that because maybe that's a brave explorer. How do you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1384.1s	1384.1	 there's not a lot more going on? It could be a love story. Those penguins get super attached.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1391.6s	1391.6	 Maybe his mate was over there and he had to go find her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1393.7s	1393.7	 Or it's a lost mate and last time he saw her was going in that direction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1398.3s	1398.3	 This is the great explorer. We assume animals are the average of the bell curve. Every animal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1405.6s	1405.6	 we interact with is just the average, but there's special ones. Just like there's special humans.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1409.3s	1409.3	 Yeah. That could be a special penguin.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1411.8s	1411.8	 It could have been. I had the same thought where I was like, I found it beautiful how he interpreted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1417.0s	1417.0	 it. What I took away from that was I found that Werner Herzog's monologue there was brilliantly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1424.0s	1424.0	 dark and also comedic, but maybe irrelevant biologically speaking towards penguins.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1431.6s	1431.6	 Which happens a lot with animals. I find there's so many times where I'll find people be like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1435.7s	1435.7	 do you think that animals can show compassion? You hear a bunch of people that have never left
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1439.6s	1439.6	 the pavement talking about like, wow, this one animal helped another animal. It's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1445.7s	1445.7	 go ask Jane Goodall if animals can show compassion. Go talk to anybody that works on a daily basis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1451.8s	1451.8	 with animals. To me, there's always a little bit of frustration and hearing people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1458.4s	1458.4	 pleasantly surprised that animals aren't just these automatons of just, what's the word,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1468.6s	1468.6	 programmed nothingness. First of all, what have you learned about life from Jane Goodall? She spoke
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1474.2s	1474.2	 highly of your book and you listed as one of the mentors, but what kind of wisdom about animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1480.2s	1480.2	 do you draw from her? The wisdom from Jane is so diverse. First of all, she's someone that ... The
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1487.3s	1487.3	 work that she did at the time she did it was so incredible because she was out there at a very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1493.1s	1493.1	 young age doing that field work. She was naming her subjects, which everyone said you shouldn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1498.2s	1498.2	 do. She broke every rule. She broke every rule. She was assigning and everyone said, you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1502.7s	1502.7	 anthropomorphizing these animals by saying that they're doing this and that. She was like, no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1507.7s	1507.7	 they're interacting. They're showing love. They're showing compassion. They're showing hate. They're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1511.3s	1511.3	 showing fear. She broke straight through all of those things and it paid off in dividends for her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1519.0s	1519.0	 Do you see the animals as having all those human-like emotions of anger, of compassion,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1526.4s	1526.4	 of longing, of loneliness from what you've seen, especially with mammals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1532.1s	1532.1	 or with different species out there? Do they have all of that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1534.6s	1534.6	 It depends on the animal. If you're talking on the scale of a cockroach to an elephant,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1539.1s	1539.1	 it's like a lot of these things. I wonder about this stuff all the time. I'll have a praying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1543.8s	1543.8	 mantis on my hand and just go, what is going through your mind? Or you'll see a spider make
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1548.9s	1548.9	 a complex decision and go, I'm going to make my web there. You go, how are you doing this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1555.5s	1555.5	 Because he made a calculation there. It's smart. I was in the jungle not that long ago and I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1560.5s	1560.5	 walking and all of a sudden this dove comes flying through the jungle right up to my face, lands on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1565.7s	1565.7	 a branch right here, right next to me. I look at the dove, dove looks at me and she's like, hey,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1569.9s	1569.9	 and she's clearly panting. I'm like, why are you so close to me? This is weird. She's like, I know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1576.4s	1576.4	 And then an ornate hawk eagle flies up 10 feet away, looks at both of us and just like scowls
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1582.3s	1582.3	 and sticks up its head feathers and then just flies off. And the dove was like, sweet, thanks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1586.9s	1586.9	 And then flew in the other direction. And I was like, dude, you just used me to save your life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1591.0s	1591.0	 The dove knew.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1592.4s	1592.4	 See, this is what, because there's Mike Tyson and there's Albert Einstein.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1599.4s	1599.4	 Sometimes I wonder when I look at different creatures, even insects,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1602.7s	1602.7	 is this Mike Tyson or is this Einstein? Or other kinds of personality, is this a New Yorker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1611.0s	1611.0	 or is this a midwesterner or is this a San Francisco barista of the insects? There's all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1617.8s	1617.8	 kinds of personalities you never know. So you can't project. If you run into a bear and he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1624.6s	1624.6	 very angry, it could be just the asshole New Yorker. Yeah, sure. Sure. As opposed to-
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1629.2s	1629.2	 What are you saying about New Yorkers, man?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1631.3s	1631.3	 Exactly. Point well made. So speaking about communicating with a dove, you first met the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1639.5s	1639.5	 crew in the Amazon. You talk about JJ as somebody who can communicate with animals. What do you think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1645.4s	1645.4	 JJ is able to see and hear and feel that others don't, that he's able to communicate with animals?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1652.3s	1652.3	 When I say this is the most skilled jungle man I've ever seen, and I know so many guys in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1659.3s	1659.3	 region, he has libraries of information in his cranium that we cannot fathom. It's just stunning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1668.9s	1668.9	 I have seen him use medicinal plants to cure things that Western doctors couldn't cure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1675.0s	1675.0	 I've seen him navigate in such a way that he's not using the stars. He's not using any discernible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1681.9s	1681.9	 It's like when elephants, sometimes you'll watch a herd of elephants and they'll be like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1685.2s	1685.2	 let's go, we're going this way. And you'll see them communicate, but there's no audible sound.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1689.4s	1689.4	 They'll just decide that they're going that way and they all do it. JJ has this way in the jungle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1694.3s	1694.3	 of he'll stop and he'll go, wait. And you go, what is it? And he goes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1700.2s	1700.2	 there's a herd of peccary coming. And I'm like, where? Based on what? And he's like, just wait,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1706.8s	1706.8	 you'll see. And he'll sit there. You think that's just experience?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1711.4s	1711.4	 It's incredible experience. It's growing up barefoot in the Amazon. And the gift is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1717.0s	1717.0	 he can speak fluent English. And so when I bring tourists and scientists or news reporters down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1723.4s	1723.4	 there, he can communicate with them. He's actually good on camera because he doesn't care about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1728.1s	1728.1	 cameras. And for instance, we were walking up a stream a few months ago and I went, hey, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1735.6s	1735.6	 Jaguar tracks. And he went, and I was like, what? Jaguar tracks. And he's like, no, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1741.0s	1741.0	 look harder. And I was like, the toes are deeper than the back. And he was like, uh-huh. And where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1747.0s	1747.0	 are they? And I was like, by the water. And I was like, the Jaguar is drinking. It was leaning to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1751.5s	1751.5	 drink. And he was like, that's right. He's like, now look behind you. I look behind me and there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1755.3s	1755.3	 scat. There's a big log of Jaguar shit sitting there. It's got butterflies all over it. Fresh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1760.6s	1760.6	 pretty fresh. And then there's another one that's less fresh. And so he's teaching me as he does,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1764.9s	1764.9	 he's going, look at this, look at this. Is that one as fresh as this one? No. And then he goes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1769.0s	1769.0	 now look up, look up. There's three vultures above us. The kill is near us. The Jaguar has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1776.3s	1776.3	 been coming multiple times to the river to drink as it's feasting on whatever it killed. And he's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1780.8s	1780.8	 going, it's within 30 feet of us right now. And it's like, I'm like, oh look, impressions in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1786.0s	1786.0	 sand. He's like, I just drew 19 conclusions from that. It's like watching Sherlock Holmes at work.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1790.4s	1790.4	 It's just- Constructing the crime scene.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1792.3s	1792.3	 Incredible. Does that apply also to be able to communicate with the actual animals?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1799.8s	1799.8	 Read into their body movements directly into their, whatever that dove was saying to you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1806.6s	1806.6	 you'd be able to understand. Or is that all just kind of taking in the complex
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1811.2s	1811.2	 structure of the crime scene, of the interactions of the different animals, of the environment,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1815.1s	1815.1	 and so on? Like what is that that you're able to communicate with another creature,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1818.7s	1818.7	 that he was able to communicate with another creature?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1821.0s	1821.0	 He knows the intention of pose. He knows the habits. He knows the perspective. When
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1826.7s	1826.7	 when he talks about animals, he'll talk about each species as if it's a person. So he'll say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1833.1s	1833.1	 oh, the jaguar, she never likes to let you see her. And so he'll come back from the jungle and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1838.6s	1838.6	 he'll go, oh, I was watching monkeys and this jaguar was also watching the monkeys, but I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1843.0s	1843.0	 being so quiet. She didn't see me. And then when she see me, she feels so embarrassed and she go.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1847.8s	1847.8	 And he'll tell you this story like, as if he had this interaction with like his neighbor.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1852.2s	1852.2	 And he'll be like, oh, the puka kunga, it never does that. You won't see it do that. And so one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1858.2s	1858.2	 time he caught a fish and I was such a big fish. It was this big, beautiful Pseudo-pladistoma,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1863.6s	1863.6	 this tiger catfish, this amazing old fish, and they're all excited to eat it. And I felt so bad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1868.6s	1868.6	 watching this thing gasp on the sand. And I went, you know what? We don't need this. This is for fun.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1873.9s	1873.9	 Threw it back. And then I took my hand and I went and I made like drag marks, like so I could say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1879.8s	1879.8	 oh, it snuck back in the water. And so he walks up, he looks at it and he was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1885.1s	1885.1	 I hate you. And I went, what? No, I said, I mean, it must've, it must've just, he went,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1889.9s	1889.9	 that's not what happens. He goes, it goes like this when it goes, he knew the track of a fish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1894.6s	1894.6	 And I was like, oh yeah. I was like, all right, JJ, I'm sorry. I'll catch you another fish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1900.3s	1900.3	 So stepping back to that way you opened mother of God. Yeah. Who was Santiago Duran and what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1906.4s	1906.4	 secret did he tell you? JJ's father was, at some point he was a policeman. At some point when he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1913.5s	1913.5	 was a teenager, he was working on the boats that before this little gold mining city of Puerto
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1919.3s	1919.3	 Maldonado grew, the only way to get supplies in was to take canoes up the Tambopada river,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1926.9s	1926.9	 up to the next state, which is Puno and, and where the mules would come down from the mountains with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1931.8s	1931.8	 supplies and then he'd pilot the boats down, but they didn't have motors at that time. So he would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1935.4s	1935.4	 be pulling the boat. So he was, he became this physically terrifying man. And I met him when he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1942.0s	1942.0	 was in his eighties and he was still living out in the jungle by himself. And I mean, he's seen an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1946.6s	1946.6	 Anaconda eat a taper, which is the, you know, a cow sized mammal in the Amazon. He'd seen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1952.4s	1952.4	 uncontacted tribes face to face. He once killed an 11 foot electric eel, opened the back of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1959.8s	1959.8	 thing's neck, removed the nerve that he says was the source of the electric. Then he cut his
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1965.0s	1965.0	 forearm, placed that nerve into his forearm, wrapped it with a dead toad and claims that it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1970.9s	1970.9	 would give him strength through the rest of his life and continued to be a jungle badass until
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1976.6s	1976.6	 the day he quietly leaned back at a barbecue and ceased to be alive. The man was incredible,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1983.4s	1983.4	 but the secret that he told us was that if you want to find big Anacondas, you know, if you want
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1990.3s	1990.3	 to see the Yakumama, he was like, you have to go to the bow, the place of Boas, the place that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=1997.1s	1997.1	 came to call the floating forest. And so he sent us there and it became like this, this pilgrimage.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2003.0s	2003.0	 And you know, in the Amazon, the, a lot of the creation myths are based around the Anaconda
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2007.3s	2007.3	 coming down from the heavens and carving the rivers across the jungle. And if you look at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2011.6s	2011.6	 the rivers, it looks like that. It looks like the path of an Anaconda crawling through the jungle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2016.8s	2016.8	 It's even the right color. And so from the reference to the tribes of women, the Amazons,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2021.8s	2021.8	 to the Anaconda mother, everything in the Amazon is very feminine based. Even the, even the trees,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2027.9s	2027.9	 the largest trees in the jungle, the mother of the forest, the Madre de la Selva is the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2032.4s	2032.4	 K-Pak tree. And it's just this monster tree, these beautiful ancient trees. And that was the beginning
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2039.3s	2039.3	 of the transition that we made from me being like, I hate school. I want to go on adventures,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2046.4s	2046.4	 you know, Jane Goodall got to do all this amazing stuff. I'm just a kid stuck here
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2051.4s	2051.4	 to eventually becoming something that had to do with where my identity became the jungle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2057.0s	2057.0	 where my life became the jungle. The secret that he told us opened that door because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2063.4s	2063.4	 when we started working with these giant snakes, it started getting attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2067.0s	2067.0	 It started getting people to go, what are you doing? And it started, it started allowing me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2074.1s	2074.1	 to have experiences that solidified and nailed down the fact that this wasn't just like a weekend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2080.3s	2080.3	 retreat. This was something that I was born to do. And gave you more and more motivation to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2086.8s	2086.8	 into these uncharted territory of the Yakamama. Which just to step back, what nations are we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2096.5s	2096.5	 talking about here? Is there some geography? What are we talking about? Where is this?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2101.7s	2101.7	 So I'm in Peru. We're in Peru. Which is a South American nation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2105.7s	2105.7	 Peru is a South American nation. Brazil has 60% of the Amazon, which is unfortunate because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2110.5s	2110.5	 anything that happens politically in Brazil has a massive impact on the Amazon. Peru has the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2118.0s	2118.0	 Western Amazon and Ecuador has a little bit of the Western Amazon. And the Western Amazon is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2124.6s	2124.6	 where the Andes Mountains, the cloud forests, which is a mega biodiverse biome,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2130.0s	2130.0	 falls into the Western Amazon lowlands. And so you have the meeting of these two incredible biomes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2135.9s	2135.9	 And that's what makes this superlative, incredible, glowing moment of life on earth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2141.8s	2141.8	 So yeah, we're in Peru in the Madre de Dios, which is the mother of God, which I always thought was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2147.1s	2147.1	 such a beautiful, the jungle is the source of all life. And so we were with the Eseaha people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2154.9s	2154.9	 and they belong to a community that's called Infierno, which is given by the missionaries
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2159.4s	2159.4	 who, when they tried to go bring these people Jesus, got so many arrows shot at them that they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2163.3s	2163.3	 just called it hell. And so Santiago Duran helped unite these tribes that were scattered through the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2171.6s	2171.6	 jungle and get them status, government recognized status as indigenous people. So he was a hero.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2177.1s	2177.1	 He was a legend for a lot of the stuff he'd done out barefoot with just a rifle and a machete in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2181.6s	2181.6	 the jungle. He had 19 children. And the last one, I think the 20th child that he adopted was a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2192.0s	2192.0	 refugee from the shining path that floated down the river. And he just took him in and this is just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2196.8s	2196.8	 a guy that was a, everything he did, like when he died, the whole region showed up. He was somebody.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2204.2s	2204.2	 So just the fact that I know him gives me street credit. Like the fact that I knew him, I can go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2208.2s	2208.2	 like, oh, I knew Santiago and people are like, no. I'm like, yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2211.8s	2211.8	 So you had to get integrated to the culture, to the place that me in every single way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2215.8s	2215.8	 which is, which is tough for you for the being from, from New York.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2220.0s	2220.0	 Yeah. Yeah. It may, it could have been tough, but it was, I took to it, you know, the jungle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2225.5s	2225.5	 they, they were very, uh, you know, JJ is teaching me about medicines and we were doing bird surveys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2230.2s	2230.2	 and, you know, taking data on McCall populations. And JJ was just like, you really want to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2235.8s	2235.8	 he goes, you got to sleep. And I was like, I only have a few weeks here. I don't know if I'm ever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2239.4s	2239.4	 going to come back. I'm never going to sleep. So we'd be out every night looking for all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2243.0s	2243.0	 wildlife we could. I wanted to take photos. I wanted to see things. And, and then, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2247.4s	2247.4	 the, the exchange came with that. He was like, you know, I'm terrified of snakes. And I said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2251.0s	2251.0	 well, I've always worked with snakes. I said, I'll teach you how to handle snakes. And then we just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2254.6s	2254.6	 had this like little exchange. And then when I left after my first time back in 2006, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2261.1s	2261.1	 I said, I said, how can I help? And, and they were like, look, you know, we're out here trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2266.5s	2266.5	 protect this, this little Island of forest that is going to be bulldozed. And, and the more people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2274.2s	2274.2	 that you can bring, the more knowledge and the more awareness that you can bring to this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2278.1s	2278.1	 it'll help. And so really at that age, at 18 years old, I sort of started dabbling with the idea of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2285.1s	2285.1	 that I could be part of helping these people to protect this place that I loved. And of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2290.5s	2290.5	 at that time, that idea seemed like too large of a dream or too large of a, of a, of a challenge
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2296.7s	2296.7	 to that I could actually impact it. So what was the journey of looking for these giant snakes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2304.9s	2304.9	 of looking for anacondas? What are anacondas? Anaconda is the largest snake on earth. So you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2314.6s	2314.6	 have reticulated pythons in Southeast Asia. They're actually longer, but anacondas are these massive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2320.7s	2320.7	 boas. They give live birth and unlike a lot of other species. So an anaconda starts off, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2326.6s	2326.6	 a little two foot anaconda, just a little thicker than your finger, a little baby. And their food
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2331.1s	2331.1	 for cane toads, herons, crocodiles, you name it. They're, they're, they're pretty harmless, defenseless,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2337.8s	2337.8	 but as they grow, they're eating the fish, they're eating the crocs and then they grow a little more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2342.5s	2342.5	 and they're eating things like capybara and they're eating larger prey. And then at the end of their
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2347.4s	2347.4	 life, a female anaconda, you're talking about a 25, 30 foot, 300, 400 pounds snake with a head
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2354.9s	2354.9	 bigger than a football. And these things, that means that they impact the entire ecosystem,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2360.6s	2360.6	 which is very unique. Moves up the food chain to become basically an apex predator. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2367.1s	2367.1	 The apex predator of the rivers. And so that's how interesting is just eating your way up the food,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2371.4s	2371.4	 eating your way of the food chain, if you can survive and like they, you know, they're constantly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2375.3s	2375.3	 at war with everything else. But, you know, so I showed up in the Amazon, I was like, so where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2379.8s	2379.8	 the anaconda is at? And they were like, oh, no, no, no, it's not like that. They're like, it's, you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2383.4s	2383.4	 you have to find these things. They're, they're subterranean. They're living in the special swamps.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2388.9s	2388.9	 They're, people kill them. And so we went to the floating forest after we'd come back from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2395.7s	2395.7	 an expedition, we'd called like a 12 foot anaconda and it's now it's become like this like classic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2399.9s	2399.9	 photo of me and JJ with this anaconda over our shoulders. And we were like, we, you know, we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2403.8s	2403.8	 12 days out in the jungle on a hunting trip. And we came back and we showed his dad and Santiago
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2410.4s	2410.4	 looked at us and he was like, that's the smallest anaconda I've ever seen. He's like, you guys are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2414.2s	2414.2	 pathetic. And he was like, look, you go to the, go, he was like, go. He's like, I'm giving you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2420.6s	2420.6	 permission. Go to the boy or go to the floating forest. And so we went to this place and we reached
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2425.2s	2425.2	 there at night and it was me, JJ and one of his brothers and his brother took one look at it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2431.0s	2431.0	 was like, I'm out. And he started walking back and me and JJ get to the edge of this thing. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2435.8s	2435.8	 this is our friendship. It's both this two idiots pushing each other farther and farther. And like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2440.1s	2440.1	 I like put a foot on the, on the ground and it all shook and the stars are reflecting on the ground.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2447.6s	2447.6	 And what we realized is that it's a lake with floating grass on top of it. And there's islands
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2454.2s	2454.2	 of grass floating on this lake, very life of pie. And the tops of trees are coming out of the surface
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2460.0s	2460.0	 of the water. And so we start walking across this and JJ is going, these are big anacondas.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2466.2s	2466.2	 And I'm going, JJ, that's a two foot wide smooth path, snaking through the grass. There's no
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2472.0s	2472.0	 anaconda that big. He was going, they're listening. I said, they don't have ears.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2477.2s	2477.2	 He goes, they're listening. And it's like, we're walking and we're walking. And then it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2481.4s	2481.4	 maybe it's like 1 a.m. or something. And it was just like one of those moments where we saw it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2487.8s	2487.8	 at the same time and we're standing by the tail and the snake was so big that, I mean, this must
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2496.1s	2496.1	 have been a 25 foot anaconda, dead asleep with a, with a, probably a 16 foot anaconda like sprawled
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2503.2s	2503.2	 across her. And they're laying in the starlight and we're floating on top of a lake standing there in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2508.0s	2508.0	 the middle of the Amazon. And JJ just, I just, I could feel the blood drain out of his face.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2514.5s	2514.5	 And as like a, however old I was, you know, maybe 20 years old, I just said, if I, if we could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2520.2s	2520.2	 somehow show people this, we'll be on the front cover of National Geographic and we can protect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2526.5s	2526.5	 all the jungle that we want. And so I tried to catch it. So I jumped on the snake and the only
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2534.8s	2534.8	 measurement I have of this animal is that when I wrapped my arms around it, I couldn't touch my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2538.4s	2538.4	 fingers. And so I was, you know, my, my, my feet were dragging and to her credit, this anaconda
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2544.2s	2544.2	 did not turn around and eat me because her head was, you know, this way and, and she went and she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2549.2s	2549.2	 reached the edge of the grass Island and she starts plunging into the dark. And so I'm watching the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2555.0s	2555.0	 stars vibrate as this anaconda is going. And I had to make the choice of either going head first down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2561.9s	2561.9	 into the black, which no thank you, or stopping and just keeping my hand on this thing as it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2568.3s	2568.3	 raced by me. And I just felt the scales and the muscle and the power go by and then eventually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2573.1s	2573.1	 taper down to the tail until it slipped away into the darkness. And I was laying there just panting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2579.2s	2579.2	 And then I turned around and went, JJ, what the fuck? Like, where were you, man? And he was just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2583.3s	2583.3	 like completely white circuits blown. And I had to go then like, kind of like take care of him. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2587.1s	2587.1	 was like, are you okay? And he was like, no, he, you know, he just couldn't. And so we came back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2593.4s	2593.4	 with that. And then after that, we were like, okay, we have clearly, clearly the parameters of reality
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2598.9s	2598.9	 that we thought were possible are, are, are just a tiny fraction of what's out there. Like we, we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2603.5s	2603.5	 now that that sort of recalibrated us. We were like, okay, we're, we're rubbing up against things that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2608.2s	2608.2	 are bigger than we thought were ever possible. And so we were like, okay, now we need to, we need to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2613.0s	2613.0	 concentrate on this. So how dangerous is that creature to you, to, to humans?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2619.1s	2619.1	 To humans, not at all. I mean, Mike, um, one, our, our cook's, uh, father-in-law was, was eaten by an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2625.9s	2625.9	 anaconda, but like, you know, then again, like the way you say that, sometimes it happens. It happens.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2632.6s	2632.6	 I mean, come on. Every now and then somebody gets stung by a bee and dies. Like, you know, it's once
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2636.1s	2636.1	 in a while it happens, but you gotta have a really big anaconda, really hungry. And like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2642.1s	2642.1	 anybody that works in the wild, I mean, just, you know, if you, you walk up to a crocodile,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2647.0s	2647.0	 even a giant Nile crocodile, you walk up to the most of the time, they're going to run into the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2650.6s	2650.6	 water. They don't want confrontation. They hunt in their way on their terms, sneaky. You're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2655.3s	2655.3	 going to see them. And so with an anaconda, it's like, yeah, if you're, I mean, the guy who got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2659.7s	2659.7	 eaten, like if you're drunk and you go to the edge of the water and you go for midnight swim by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2664.3s	2664.3	 yourself in an Amazonian lake, I mean, whose fault is that? But if you jump on an anaconda and try to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2670.4s	2670.4	 yeah, hold on, then you're safe. Apparently. I mean, I think I've, I think at this point we've,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2677.0s	2677.0	 you know, the research we've done, I think I've, I've handled or caught, you know, over 80 anacondas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2681.2s	2681.2	 in the field and not one of them has bitten me. They always choose flight over fight. They're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2686.9s	2686.9	 like, just let, leave me alone. Let me go. I'm just going to crawl under this thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2691.5s	2691.5	 They're not an aggressive animal. I mean, no snake, no, I actually like, I kind of like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2696.3s	2696.3	 the only time I get particular with like, you know, the words is like people go, that's an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2700.2s	2700.2	 aggressive black mambas are aggressive. And I know no snake is aggressive. A rattlesnake is going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2705.4s	2705.4	 rattle to say, Hey, back up. Cobra is going to stand up and show you its hood. And people go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2710.2s	2710.2	 Oh, look, he's being aggressive. No, he's not being aggressive. He's going, don't step on me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2713.8s	2713.8	 Don't make me do this. They're actually being very peaceful. That's the way I look at it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2718.6s	2718.6	 Cause if there was a Cobra in the corner of this room right now, he would crawl under the curtain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2721.8s	2721.8	 and we'd never see him again. Yeah. It's like a Genghis Khan before conquering the villages. He
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2726.8s	2726.8	 always offered for them to join the army. It doesn't need to be like this. Yeah. Join us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2731.3s	2731.3	 Nobody gets destroyed. If you want to be proud and fight for your country, then, uh, then we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2739.0s	2739.0	 going to oblige him. Exactly. Okay. So how do you, how do you catch, uh, actually let's step back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2746.2s	2746.2	 because there is in part, you are a bit of a snake whisperer. So what, what is it that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2753.8s	2753.8	 that others don't understand that you do about snakes? What's maybe a misconception or what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2761.1s	2761.1	 what is, uh, what have you learned from the language you speak that snakes understand?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2766.3s	2766.3	 I don't know. It's just, it's an animal that has, has many times in my life, I've been responsible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2771.9s	2771.9	 for helping. Um, the, you know, I started catching snakes when I was very young.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2776.8s	2776.8	 I'd watch Steve Irwin and go out and catch a garter snake or a black rat snake in New York. And,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2781.2s	2781.2	 um, and then I had a rule. I said, I have to catch a hundred nonvenomous snakes before I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2785.7s	2785.7	 allowed to handle a venomous snake if I ever need to handle a venomous snake. And then,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2789.2s	2789.2	 you know, I was on a trail one time, I think in Harriman state park and some guy, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2793.2s	2793.2	 like some big hero, he tells us, you know, he's like, back up, I'm going to get this. And he like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2797.4s	2797.4	 picks up a stick and he like goes to like assault this poor copperhead that's sitting on the trail.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2802.4s	2802.4	 And so like at like 16 years old, I had to go and like shoulder this guy out of the way. And I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2806.7s	2806.7	 got the thing by the tail and used a stick to very gently just put it off the trail. Copperhead was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2812.2s	2812.2	 not going to do anything to him, but he wanted to, you know, beat his chest and show his wife that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2815.8s	2815.8	 he was tough. Um, but then in India, you know, I've lived in India for five years at this point in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2821.9s	2821.9	 and out, you know, periodically and, and snakes are always getting into people's kitchens. Um,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2828.1s	2828.1	 one time we had a King Cobra get into someone's kitchen, an 11 foot snake, like a monster,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2833.5s	2833.5	 like a God of a snake. This thing stood up, you know, stand up, it'd be able to look at you over
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2837.5s	2837.5	 the table and this terrifying monster thing, um, giant gorilla dog thing. Like we caught it with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2847.4s	2847.4	 one of the local snake catchers and we brought it out and he goes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2851.4s	2851.4	 you know, I wonder why I was in the kitchen. Yeah. Looking for food and they go, no, they eat snakes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2856.6s	2856.6	 King Cobra, Ophiophagus hana, they eat snakes. And he goes, she's thirsty. And so we got a bottle of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2864.0s	2864.0	 water and we got footage of this and we, she's standing up. She's going, don't make me kill you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2867.7s	2867.7	 Don't make me kill you. You're scaring me right now. I don't want to kill you. We took the bottle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2871.8s	2871.8	 of water and we poured it on her nose and she started, she started drinking. You could see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2876.1s	2876.1	 you could see her just drinking and the snake just took this long drink. She drank a whole water
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2880.6s	2880.6	 bottle and then said, thank you so much and crawled off. And it's like, to me, the fact that people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2887.4s	2887.4	 are scared of snakes, they have symbolic hatred of snakes. You know, you, you know, someone's evil
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2892.5s	2892.5	 and sneaky. We call them a snake. And like, to me, it's like, when I take volunteers or researchers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2898.5s	2898.5	 or students out into the jungle and we find an Emerald tree boa or an Amazon tree boa or,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2904.1s	2904.1	 or a vine snake. And it's like, there's this, it's one of the few animals that you can't really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2908.4s	2908.4	 catch a bird and show it to people. You're going to scare the bird. Its feathers are going to come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2911.7s	2911.7	 out. You might give it a heart attack. Snakes, you can lift up a snake. You know, if there's a snake
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2916.2s	2916.2	 in the room right now, I could lift it up and say, Lex, here, this is how you hold it. And we can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2919.6s	2919.6	 interact calmly with this thing and then put it back on its branch and then it'll go. And I've seen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2924.0s	2924.0	 what that does to people. I've seen how the wonder in their eyes. And so to me, snakes have always
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2929.0s	2929.0	 been this incredible link to teach people about wildlife, about nature.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2933.0s	2933.0	 Because they have naturally a lot of fear towards this creature and to realize that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2937.6s	2937.6	 the fear is not justified, is not grounded or is not as deeply grounded in reality. Of course,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2944.2s	2944.2	 there's always New Yorker snakes, right? There's always going to be an asshole snake here and there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2948.8s	2948.8	 You're coming for me, man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2952.6s	2952.6	 Well, okay. So back to the Anaconda. How do you catch an Anaconda? Like what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2956.5s	2956.5	 how do you handle it? Because it's such a 25 foot or even 12 foot giant snakes. How do you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2965.5s	2965.5	 deal with this creature? How do you interact with it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2967.5s	2967.5	 We had to learn how to do that. Cause one of the first ones we caught that I would say maybe like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2971.4s	2971.4	 a 16 footer, which is no joke of a snake, you know, girth of a basketball, let's say.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2977.1s	2977.1	 You know, we're on the canoe and this is the early days. Like, you know, now we're at a whole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2982.7s	2982.7	 different level, but this is back when we were barefoot and shirtless and just guys in the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2988.2s	2988.2	 and JJ is like, you know, I just listened to him. He'd be like, get off the boat. You come from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2993.3s	2993.3	 top. We're going to come from the bottom. I was like, okay. I just did as I was told. I came in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=2998.6s	2998.6	 the snake is all curled up, dead asleep. She's got some butterflies on her eyes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3002.1s	3002.1	 trying to get salt and stuff. And all of a sudden I see the tongue. I'm like, she's awake. And I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3007.4s	3007.4	 like, guys, guys, guys. And they're paying attention to not crashing the boat, to getting over there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3012.7s	3012.7	 We're all trying to run. Snake starts going into the water. So I run ahead, grab this snake,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3017.9s	3017.9	 get her by the head. So you got her by the head. You think, okay, she can't, she can't get me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3022.3s	3022.3	 I got her right behind the head and it's about this thick, the neck. What's that feel like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3026.0s	3026.0	 side to interrupt, like grabbing this thing with this giant head. It's exciting. It's amazing. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3032.6s	3032.6	 scary. How hard is it to hold? It's not that hard to hold. The scary part is the moment of it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3038.3s	3038.3	 if you ever done like a cliff dive or something, it's that moment where you go, do it, do it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3042.7s	3042.7	 the time, like do it. And if your body's going, do not do that. And then you're like, I gotta just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3047.0s	3047.0	 do it. And you do it. Yeah. Because you can't just gently flirt with it. You have to grab.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3051.0s	3051.0	 No. And it's like crossing the street when there's a bus coming. It's like, if you hesitate,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3054.6s	3054.6	 it's more dangerous. So you go for it and I got her and I was like, I got her.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3060.6s	3060.6	 And then a coil goes over my wrists and all of a sudden my wrists slap together and you feel this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3065.8s	3065.8	 squeeze that can crush the bones out of an animal bigger than me. And the next coil comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3070.1s	3070.1	 very quickly over my neck. And now I'm on my knees with my arms tied. If I wanted to let go of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3075.5s	3075.5	 snake, I couldn't. And my shoulders are coming together and my collarbone is about to break.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3080.6s	3080.6	 And I tried to yell for JJ and all that came out was there was nothing. And so that's what they do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3085.1s	3085.1	 to their prey. So I attacked, as far as the snake knows, I attacked. She doesn't know that I just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3089.3s	3089.3	 want to measure her. You started off as the big spoon, but then the snake became the big spoon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3094.8s	3094.8	 Very much became the big spoon. And I would say I was 15 seconds away from having my entire rib
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3100.6s	3100.6	 cage collapsed. And then JJ showed up and grabbed the tail and just started unwrapping this thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3105.3s	3105.3	 And then we got, but now we have a system. Now we know like, I've gotten more head catches than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3111.5s	3111.5	 anybody. So I'm usually point guy. And you get- You're the first, the point guy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3118.2s	3118.2	 I'm the point guy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3118.8s	3118.8	 Okay. The taking the big risky first step.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3122.8s	3122.8	 So it could be argued that there's a similarly large risk for the tail guy because the Anaconda's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3127.9s	3127.9	 defense is to take a giant projectile shit. And so the person that gets the tail is going to smell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3133.8s	3133.8	 like Anaconda for like at least a week. Yes. It's the least pleasant. You're taking the most
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3138.6s	3138.6	 dangerous one there. They have the least pleasant job. This is fascinating.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3142.9s	3142.9	 But what's really fascinating though, is that because they're the apex predator,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3147.0s	3147.0	 they're eating the fish, they're eating the birds, they're eating everything. And everything in this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3150.3s	3150.3	 riparian ecosystem is absorbing the mercury that's coming off the gold mining in the region.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3155.9s	3155.9	 And so Anaconda's can be indicative for us of how is mercury moving through this ecosystem.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3163.0s	3163.0	 And this is a region where we've lost hundreds of thousands of acres to artisanal gold mining,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3167.0s	3167.0	 where they use mercury to bind the gold. They cut the forest, burn the forest,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3172.2s	3172.2	 and then they run water through the sand and the sand particles have bits of gold in it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3176.6s	3176.6	 not chunks, but just little almost microscopic flecks of gold. And then they use the mercury to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3182.9s	3182.9	 bind that and then they burn off the mercury and that vapor goes up into the clouds. So just like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3187.5s	3187.5	 everything else, it's all connected down there and then rains down into the rivers. And so the people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3192.0s	3192.0	 in the region are having birth defects from the amount of mercury that's in the water. And so we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3197.4s	3197.4	 were starting at one point when we were doing most of our Anaconda research, we were learning things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3202.2s	3202.2	 like these animals actually aren't just ambush predators, which is what most of the literature
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3206.0s	3206.0	 would tell you is that Anacondas are ambush predators. No, they actually go hunting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3209.4s	3209.4	 They'll go find clay licks and salt deposits and they'll wait there. They'll actually pursue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3214.1s	3214.1	 animals. And we were trying to take tissue samples to find out if Anacondas could be used to study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3219.9s	3219.9	 how mercury is moving through the ecosystem. And so that was really, it became, can we use these
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3225.6s	3225.6	 animals not only as ambassadors for wildlife because everybody wants to see the Anacondas,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3230.6s	3230.6	 but also what can we learn from studying this very, very little understood apex predator.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3236.6s	3236.6	 And one of the things you can learn is how mercury moves through the ecosystem,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3240.3s	3240.3	 which can damage the ecosystem in all kinds of different ways.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3243.1s	3243.1	 Yeah, it's brutal, man. The gold mining that's happening down there is, it's funny because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3248.4s	3248.4	 we've been hearing a lot recently about the cobalt mines in Africa. And it's like where we are in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3253.4s	3253.4	 Amazon. We were down there with ABC News, I want to say like a year and a half ago,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3261.2s	3261.2	 with my friend, Matt Gutman, who's the chief correspondent for ABC. And he wanted to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3265.9s	3265.9	 the Amazon fires. He wanted to see some wildlife. He wanted to see the areas that we're protecting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3270.3s	3270.3	 And then he goes, I want to see the gold mining areas. And I'd never gotten in so deep, but we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3277.0s	3277.0	 met these rushing, you can't go to the Peruvian, they will kill you. Like our lawyer's father was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3281.0s	3281.0	 assassinated for standing up to the gold miners. There was two Russian guys though, who had a legal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3286.5s	3286.5	 mining concession somehow way out past the machine gun guarded limit of the Pompas, which is where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3292.6s	3292.6	 they do all this gold mining. And we got in there and took footage of the desert that is forming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3298.6s	3298.6	 in what used to be the headwaters of the Amazon rainforest. And it's like, there is a massive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3304.7s	3304.7	 global scale ecological crime happening down there that you can see from space, from this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3311.1s	3311.1	 unregulated gold mining and the cops can't go there because they will be murdered. It's completely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3315.8s	3315.8	 lawless. What's the machine gun limit exactly? It's the border of this area that they call the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3321.2s	3321.2	 Pompas, which is where the rainforest has been cut and completely destroyed. And it looks like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3325.4s	3325.4	 Mars, it's just sand. And inside of this area are gold miners. And we tried to get in there to film
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3334.1s	3334.1	 years ago. And there's just a lot of guys with machine guns who don't let that happen.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3338.4s	3338.4	 And what the Russian guys have access to? The Russian guys had access somehow. They'd come
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3342.0s	3342.0	 down with a bit of money and they had a new system. Yeah. And actually what was interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3346.6s	3346.6	 is while I was in there, they're very friendly and really, really two friendly gold miners.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3352.0s	3352.0	 And they, one of them, while I was there, he kind of tapped me on the shoulder. He was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3357.4s	3357.4	 look at those guys. He was like, those guys over there? He goes, I just heard them say your name.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3363.0s	3363.0	 And he goes, that's not a good thing. He goes, they know exactly who you are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3367.0s	3367.0	 And he goes, I wouldn't keep posting to Instagram about gold mining and the Amazon. And I was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3371.5s	3371.5	 thanks for the warning. And then in June, somebody pulled up beside me on a motorcycle and I got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3377.9s	3377.9	 more stern warning. But they pay attention to the flow of information because they don't want the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3382.2s	3382.2	 world to find out. Oh, the last thing they want is to be shut down. But the gold miners are notorious
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3389.4s	3389.4	 for just whacking people and throwing them in a pile of gold mining leftovers. It's really like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3398.7s	3398.7	 the Peruvian government has to get the military to go after them. The work we've done with gold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3403.2s	3403.2	 miners converting them into conservationists has all been like, I mean, I've seen the Peruvian
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3407.8s	3407.8	 Navy come down and literally blow up gold mining barges. And it's a war. It's a war being fought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3414.5s	3414.5	 in the Amazon. So it's possible to convert them into conservationists? What's that process like?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3422.6s	3422.6	 You say that in jest. No, I say that in absolute sincerity. We went up the Malinowski River
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3429.4s	3429.4	 several years ago, I think it was 2018, and everyone was like, you are going to die.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3434.8s	3434.8	 You will be shot and killed. And the reason we were able to do it with relative safety was that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3441.8s	3441.8	 the gold miner that we were going with was the brother-in-law of one of my closest friends down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3448.1s	3448.1	 there, our expedition chef and one of the directors of Jungle Keepers. And they said, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3452.7s	3452.7	 you can go, just keep a low profile. And so I went up with a photographer and we spent a week there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3456.9s	3456.9	 and dead animals everywhere, deforestation everywhere. I mean, the things that we saw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3461.8s	3461.8	 were so horrible. And we're living with these gold miners that are, they're getting their gold,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3467.8s	3467.8	 they're burning off the mercury. I watched a guy smoking a cigarette, burning the mercury off of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3473.0s	3473.0	 his gold with the vapor going straight into his face with his child right there. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3480.2s	3480.2	 unbelievable negligence of just sanity. And then towards the end of the week, the Peruvian Navy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3487.4s	3487.4	 comes down the river and everyone starts scrambling. And I was like, I'm just going to sit here with my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3491.3s	3491.3	 hands up because, you know, and they didn't even stop. They found the gold mining barge. They have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3497.0s	3497.0	 a floating thing in the river that just plumbs the bottom of the river, just sucks all the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3501.1s	3501.1	 sediment up. And they stopped and they strapped a bunch of explosives to this motor. And good Lord,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3507.8s	3507.8	 the sound of this explosion. And there was just hot metal raining down all over the place. And then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3512.4s	3512.4	 they just went, a bunch of guys in fatigues. And they just kind of like looked at us like, peace.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3516.7s	3516.7	 And I sat there with this gold miner and I went, now what? And he went, well, now I got to go get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3521.0s	3521.0	 a new motor. And I went, why don't you just do something else? And he goes, what else is there?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3527.0s	3527.0	 And I went, look what we do. And I sat there with my phone and I was like, see this, these are pretty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3531.5s	3531.5	 tourists and we feed them food and we show them tarantulas and macaws and things. And he looked
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3536.6s	3536.6	 at this and he went, wow. He goes, you, because that looks like so much fun. And I went, it is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3542.1s	3542.1	 so much fun. I said, we show people, we bring students to the jungle. He goes, so you're saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3546.6s	3546.6	 if I build you a lodge, you'll bring people? I said, yeah. And I came back a year later and he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3551.8s	3551.8	 sat there with a chainsaw, a hand saw and some nails and he cut down like 17 palm trees and he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3557.8s	3557.8	 built an eco-tourism lodge. So you gave them another channel of survival. Yes. Of making money.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3564.7s	3564.7	 And that's what we've been doing through jungle keepers for loggers and for all kinds of extractors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3569.7s	3569.7	 is just saying, look, what do you make? You make $15 a day destroying the ancient trees of the jungle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3575.4s	3575.4	 What if we paid you $35 a day to have a uniform and a job and health insurance and security
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3584.3s	3584.3	 and you just protect it and use all of the jungle knowledge you've gained as a logger to protect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3588.4s	3588.4	 this place. Who are the loggers trying to destroy the Amazon? Can you say a little bit more about it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3596.0s	3596.0	 Is that as a threat to the Amazon rainforest? A lot of them are really close friends of mine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3602.7s	3602.7	 They're people that need to make a living and they're jungle people who,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3609.4s	3609.4	 the rainforest is a very challenging, especially the Amazon is a very challenging environment.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3613.9s	3613.9	 So you have these people who they have a chainsaw, they have a job opportunity,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3618.6s	3618.6	 they go out and they cut the trees. And a lot of these guys grew up fishing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3621.4s	3621.4	 they grew up in the jungle, they know how to do it. And so for them, it's a way to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3625.4s	3625.4	 they also love it. So this is the thing, these are outdoorsmen, these are guys that love the jungle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3630.4s	3630.4	 And so they, in the nineties, we had the mahogany boom where they went out after the mahogany and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3635.0s	3635.0	 you can almost can't find a mahogany tree in the jungle anymore. And if you want to talk about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3640.0s	3640.0	 carbon sequestration in the rainforest, the ancient hardwoods hold like 60% of the carbon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3647.4s	3647.4	 of the whole rainforest. They have an outsized disproportionate mass from that ancient density
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3653.3s	3653.3	 of the wood. And so these loggers go out and they cut the wood that's most valuable and then they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3659.0s	3659.0	 bring it back to town and they sell it. And then people like us buy it and put it on our kitchen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3662.5s	3662.5	 floors. And so the thing is, when I got to the Amazon, it was loggers are the bad guys.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3673.0s	3673.0	 And if you talk to a lot of like the PhDs that I worked with down there were always very at odds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3677.4s	3677.4	 with the miners, at odds with the loggers. And then I'd be with JJ and JJ would sit down and he'd be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3683.0s	3683.0	 like, Hey, let's pour a drink. Oh, they have Masato. Let's all sit down. And like we'd all be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3686.3s	3686.3	 chilling and throwing them back with a bunch of loggers. And then the opportunity through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3693.7s	3693.7	 not vilifying these people came to be like, Oh, these guys are great. And then of course out in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3701.2s	3701.2	 the wild every now and then something will happen. You'll see somebody's boat flipped over and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3705.0s	3705.0	 go help them out. And then that creates a certain type of kinship. So they're ultimately people who
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3711.7s	3711.7	 love the same thing you love. Often, yeah. Even if they don't love it, they're people that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3716.3s	3716.3	 aren't necessarily looking to destroy it. I've met loggers who have looked at,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3720.8s	3720.8	 at trees they're about to cut and gone, ah, this is a shame. Start it up. You know, they're just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3726.3s	3726.3	 like, this is where the paycheck comes from. Let's come back briefly to anacondas.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3733.8s	3733.8	 Can you tell me this whole situation with discoveries eaten alive? There's some drama
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3739.1s	3739.1	 and controversy around that. Can you explain that whole saga with discovery with,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3743.7s	3743.7	 um, with your whole effort, maybe outside of even the drama, the, the initial thing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3751.0s	3751.0	 which I know feel you're sufficiently insane to actually do a being eaten by anaconda. Is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3757.6s	3757.6	 that actually possible to survive something like that? I mean, if it, the anaconda swallows you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3761.9s	3761.9	 while you're wearing the suit that they made, maybe, but that was in hindsight with it. That
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3766.7s	3766.7	 was the result of, look, I go to the jungle and you start seeing these beautiful places,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3775.3s	3775.3	 these incredible species. You start developing a relationship with these animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3779.8s	3779.8	 and then you watch it get destroyed. Every year we watch it burn every year, places that are,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3787.9s	3787.9	 are crucial to my soul. I have seen leveled and turned to ash. And at some point we started going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3796.8s	3796.8	 someone has to do something about this. And you look to your right and you look to your left and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3801.7s	3801.7	 there is no one because it's the middle of the Amazon and the rainforests have been being
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3806.3s	3806.3	 destroyed since the seventies. It's a cliche. And so we started trying to do something about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3813.5s	3813.5	 And so I started putting a little bit more emphasis on, on publicity, a little bit more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3818.5s	3818.5	 emphasis on getting the message out there. And so I started trying to see how, what was going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3823.0s	3823.0	 work. You start firing shots in the dark and seeing, and JJ is going, you have to help us do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3827.8s	3827.8	 something. And I'm going, okay. And so from 18 years old now, now I'm 23 years old and all of a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3834.5s	3834.5	 sudden this place isn't, isn't foreign to me anymore. It's, it's home. And, and so-
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3840.7s	3840.7	 You're trying to think of all the different ways you can bring attention to this place that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3844.2s	3844.2	 care about that's being destroyed. Yeah. You're standing next to a boulder of progress,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3849.0s	3849.0	 of, of destruction, and it's about to roll onto the forest and just destroy it and snuff out all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3854.9s	3854.9	 that life. And no one's there to do anything about it. And so you go, is there any way that I could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3860.8s	3860.8	 put myself in front of this boulder and hold it back? And you're talking about, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3867.5s	3867.5	 the globe, the global economic reality. It's just, it's just such a massive, it's systemic.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3873.5s	3873.5	 So what's the most dramatic possible thing I could do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3878.0s	3878.0	 So when you find yourself flown to LA as a 23 year old dude, and you're sitting there with some guy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3885.1s	3885.1	 you know, who's like spinning a pen and got his feet up on the desk and going, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3889.1s	3889.1	 what can you show us down there? And you go, I could show you the biggest anacondas in the world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3892.6s	3892.6	 And we could talk about mercury and bioaccumulation and we could show people how these animals are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3896.6s	3896.6	 misunderstood. And we go on a big expedition and we could be the coolest show ever. And he goes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3900.9s	3900.9	 yeah, not good enough. Okay. And so that, that, that, that, that cycled through a bunch of times.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3907.9s	3907.9	 Then someone at some point in one of those meetings said, you know, what if we show people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3913.0s	3913.0	 that anacondas really can eat humans? And I went, how is that a good show? You want me to feed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3916.9s	3916.9	 someone to an anaconda? And I said, I said, I mean, I kind of joked like, what if, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3922.2s	3922.2	 I was like, the only way that's feasible is if you like make a suit with a breathing apparatus and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3926.2s	3926.2	 let the snake eat you and then come back out safely and make sure you don't hurt the snake.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3930.1s	3930.1	 They were like, kid, you're on. And I was like, oh shit.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3934.4s	3934.4	 So I should mention a small tangent. I think I mentioned to you offline, uh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3939.6s	3939.6	 due to travel troubles where I traveled to the totally wrong part of the United States, um,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3944.9s	3944.9	 on my way to Boston, uh, and on my way to Boston, I did a conversation with, uh, Mr. Beast, Jimmy,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3952.8s	3952.8	 and I've gotten a chance to hang out with him for the day. And one of the things we did is have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3958.5s	3958.5	 a lengthy brainstorm session with his team or I was, I was observing it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3964.2s	3964.2	 But it was interesting because he's probably way better at that conversation that you had with a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3971.2s	3971.2	 with a guy in LA than the guy in LA, obviously because he's made, he's revolutionizing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3978.1s	3978.1	 entertainment and he's also doing philanthropy, which he's trying to figure out how to help the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3984.0s	3984.0	 world with that kind of stuff. So I would love to actually, I'll send him a message to see what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3987.9s	3987.9	 what his thoughts just brainstorm. He's so strong at this. Literally take the situation you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=3993.2s	3993.2	 facing. Here's the place that I really care about is being burned down. It's being destroyed. Uh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4000.6s	4000.6	 what's the sexy video? Yeah. Well, how do you get, how do you get people to watch something that's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4005.7s	4005.7	 you know, we all change a channel when they show us the kids in Africa with the swollen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4009.6s	4009.6	 stomachs. Nobody wants to see it. And it's like, with the rainforest, like we know, we know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4014.6s	4014.6	 we know. And I'm going, I could give data all day long. I could show photos of burning forest.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4020.3s	4020.3	 And so I was looking for what would do it. And so the eating alive thing without spending too much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4024.8s	4024.8	 time on a, on a massive misstep was I agreed to do it. They paid me at the time, more money than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4031.1s	4031.1	 I had made before, which I very much needed because nobody pays you to be a conservationist.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4035.8s	4035.8	 Um, so I was a very poor 23 year old that was like, yes, I would love that please. And I thought,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4041.4s	4041.4	 you know what, this is the start of a TV career. Um, we got, we got shafted so bad. I mean, they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4048.8s	4048.8	 used, somehow they changed our voices. They changed the things we said. They changed the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4053.8s	4053.8	 message of the film. There was one point where we had caught a 19 foot snake and I was holding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4058.6s	4058.6	 her head and I said, this is such a beautiful animal, the queen of the Amazon. This is such
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4063.6s	4063.6	 a great moment for me. I kissed her on the head. I said, she's made so many babies. Look at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4067.3s	4067.3	 scars. I was talking about just the poetry of this incredible dragon. And then the producer goes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4072.7s	4072.7	 yeah, yeah, yeah, that's great. Listen, if that was to bite you, what would happen? And I was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4076.8s	4076.8	 oh, well, if it bit you, you know, you'd bleed out cause it would lacerate down to the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4080.8s	4080.8	 that's what they put in the film. And so they have, they, they didn't show me the film until
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4085.6s	4085.6	 the night before I went on Matt Lauer show. And I said, I am not endorsing this film.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4091.8s	4091.8	 And they had called it expedition on the call sheet. They'd called it expedition EA expedition
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4096.5s	4096.5	 Amazon. All of a sudden they changed it to eaten alive. And I went, wait guys, wait, wait, wait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4101.4s	4101.4	 I said, you're going to make people think that it actually happened. Not that we're attempting it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4105.4s	4105.4	 And they, and I say, I'm not. And then they called me and they said, you better, you're going on live
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4109.4s	4109.4	 TV tomorrow. They said, you let us know what level of control we need to show for you. Right. And it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4113.0s	4113.0	 was very threatening phone call. And so I had to go out and smile for the cameras and endorse
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4119.4s	4119.4	 something that was a train wreck. And the scientific community was like, you're an idiot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4125.5s	4125.5	 We don't want to ever see you again. I lost a lot of opportunities. PETA came, which, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4129.8s	4129.8	 PETA, whatever, but PETA came out. People were like, you, you, you were trying to hurt a snake,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4133.4s	4133.4	 which I would never do. And then the American public was like, you know, you said you were going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4137.4s	4137.4	 to get eaten by a snake and you didn't. And so everyone was pissed. I basically had to exile
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4141.5s	4141.5	 myself to India for like six months and just, I mean, I had death threats coming through all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4145.3s	4145.3	 my messages. People were furious with me. What gave you strength to that? How difficult was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4151.3s	4151.3	 that psychologically? Just everything you care about being completely kind of flipped upside down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4157.8s	4157.8	 I've spent so much time on the ground with the local people learning from the wildlife. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4163.0s	4163.0	 such a devout and important thing to me. And it got turned into a, a sideshow. It got turned into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4169.0s	4169.0	 a joke and then not just a joke. It got turned into that. I'm somehow bad to animals, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4176.2s	4176.2	 I'm irresponsible scientifically. Jimmy Kimmel told me to have sex with a hippo as my next stunt.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4183.8s	4183.8	 Like it was like, it got really ugly and it misfired so bad. And when you hear these like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4190.1s	4190.1	 motivational speakers talk about, you know, you just got to keep trying and sometimes you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4194.2s	4194.2	 going to fail hard. It was like that one, I got hit in the head with a baseball bat. That one was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4198.5s	4198.5	 tough. And at the time I was like, I'm fine. And I was like, I'm going to go away for a while,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4204.0s	4204.0	 you know, and I learned a lot though. Like at this point, I'm still glad I did it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4209.0s	4209.0	 because man, did I learn a lot about what a, what a room full of people that you don't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4213.1s	4213.1	 who could look you in the eye and shake your hand and say, trust us. Oh boy. Do you have on a human
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4220.2s	4220.2	 level of resentment towards discovery, towards the people involved, be able to forgive them?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4227.0s	4227.0	 I don't care. It literally that that's what they do. You know, they literally put out a documentary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4232.2s	4232.2	 saying that mermaids were real. You know, it's a minute, wait a minute. They're not, listen,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4240.6s	4240.6	 I'm not even touching that one. It is true. It is true. The document, there is a documentary
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4246.3s	4246.3	 where they duped a bunch of scientists who are like oceanographers and they like showed them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4249.8s	4249.8	 ancient footage of, you know, mariners saying that seals were mermaids. Who cares? It's, it's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4255.7s	4255.7	 it's, I was young. I got brought to Hollywood and I got spit out the other side and that's on me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4261.6s	4261.6	 That's not their fault. You know, you, there's that, you know, you don't, the, the, there's that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4265.3s	4265.3	 parable about the frog who gives the scorpion a ride across the water. And then at the end,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4269.9s	4269.9	 he says, I'll give you a ride. Just don't sting me. And they get to the other side and the scorpion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4273.1s	4273.1	 stings them. And the frog goes, why did you do that? And the scorpion goes, I'm a scorpion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4277.0s	4277.0	 Yeah, that's, it's not their fault. That's my nature. But now that you've become much
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4283.8s	4283.8	 more well-known and much more successful, what you do, you have a platform. Can you return to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4288.8s	4288.8	 those people and use it, the machine to get more and more attention? Is that something you work on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4295.4s	4295.4	 or do you prefer to work completely outside? I think that most of the success that we've had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4302.6s	4302.6	 now in protecting the rainforest and, and, and it's the levels that we've reached are so far,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4309.1s	4309.1	 I think back to those barefoot days of catching snakes with JJ on the boat and now the massive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4315.3s	4315.3	 ecological reserve we have and the team of Rangers and the converted loggers and all of that is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4320.0s	4320.0	 because of the ability to communicate and to show people. But that's all been through social media.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4326.8s	4326.8	 And so I'm open to the fact, you know, if, if, if somebody came and gave a sort of like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4331.2s	4331.2	 Bordenian pass where they said, look, you can be yourself. You can swear, you can fart,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4335.2s	4335.2	 you can smoke, you can do whatever you want to do. Go out there and show us the real thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4339.9s	4339.9	 I would love to, but now I know how those contracts need to be. I need to have right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4344.6s	4344.6	 to refusal and they can't change them. And so I'd almost rather just do it like the way I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4349.6s	4349.6	 like Mr. Beast does, does stuff where it's like, you just, you get a crew of guys and some seed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4353.4s	4353.4	 money and go film the episodes and put it out. Exactly. I mean, a committee never helped real
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4358.3s	4358.3	 art be better. It has to come from the, the, the source of inspiration. So you get, you get,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4365.0s	4365.0	 I think, you know, you get JJ and a crew of people or the guys in Africa that I'm working
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4368.3s	4368.3	 with right now doing elephant conservation and like, but you got to show real. I mean, look,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4373.4s	4373.4	 that's why, that's why, I mean, look, that's why Joe Rogan isn't, is, is important right now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4378.5s	4378.5	 That's why you're important right now is because it's not being filtered through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4382.8s	4382.8	 this ridiculous system of, of polishing it and dumbing it down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4387.1s	4387.1	 Yeah. That's why Joe has been an inspiration. You don't need a, a crew of a bunch of people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4392.4s	4392.4	 You don't need a crew period. All you need is one or two other people. And that's it. And in my case,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4397.8s	4397.8	 you don't need anybody. I've been doing this. I, by requirement, I just need to be by myself.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4404.5s	4404.5	 There's a few other folks now that I help with the editing and so on, but it's just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4408.1s	4408.1	 they make life more awesome as opposed to a boss that's, that tells like a creative director.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4413.8s	4413.8	 Yeah. Somebody told me actually I was visiting LA. I think it was in LA that they were saying that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4421.0s	4421.0	 now for all intimate scenes in Hollywood movies, there's an intimacy director. So when there's a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4426.5s	4426.5	 two people having sex, there's a third person that ensures that on film, so it's not real,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4433.5s	4433.5	 but there's still intimacy. That there's a third person that ensures that like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4438.2s	4438.2	 everyone is comfortable. And the actors say that this like always ruins the, the chemistry of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4444.3s	4444.3	 scene. And so it's a very Hollywood thing. I understand that there's creepy people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4449.5s	4449.5	 Oh yeah. I understand. Thanks, Harvey Weinstein.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4452.9s	4452.9	 Uh, it's usually, I think comes from the director pushing things too hard. If you just leave it to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4457.2s	4457.2	 the actors, they know their boundaries, they can control their own boundaries. Uh, so the intimacy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4461.3s	4461.3	 director is more for the, like the director pushing things, you know, there's Warner Herzog.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4466.1s	4466.1	 I understand the, I understand the logic. Like let's make sure that we don't have anything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4469.8s	4469.8	 happen here that shouldn't be happening. I get it, but I, yeah, but, but no, I think that authenticity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4475.0s	4475.0	 is, is, is the greatest currency. And I think that in order for me to tell the stories that I can tell,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4481.4s	4481.4	 like, you know, what changed the game for me was, I want to tell you this story. Sure. So in 2019,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4489.1s	4489.1	 um, the, the Amazon fire started popping off and we had just gone to, to film, uh, like a month
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4497.8s	4497.8	 earlier, we'd filmed like a small documentary and, uh, they'd been following me as if I was on a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4503.0s	4503.0	 as if I was on a solo, which, you know, we did the best we could. I, I lived on my own,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4507.2s	4507.2	 but we, uh, as we were driving, we passed a spot where the flames were 70 feet tall.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4511.8s	4511.8	 The forest was being destroyed. And I went out there with my phone, which overheated in like two
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4517.1s	4517.1	 minutes and said, you can't use it. But I, for a second, I was out there in the flames, picking up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4521.7s	4521.7	 animals and throwing them off to try and just get them cooled off. I was trying to get snakes out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4525.7s	4525.7	 of there. Everything was the birds are flying and I fucking lost it. I, I was red eyed. I was crying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4531.5s	4531.5	 and I was going, this is happening every fucking day. I was screaming. And it's the first time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4537.5s	4537.5	 that I'd done that because I've seen the burning so many times and I just lost it that day. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4542.1s	4542.1	 I don't know what made me pull out my phone. Cause usually in those intense moments, I,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4546.5s	4546.5	 I say, forget the documentation. This is real life. We got stuff to do and I'm doing,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4550.2s	4550.2	 I'm not documenting. And then a month later I'm home and I'm in New York and all of a sudden I see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4555.8s	4555.8	 these articles like, you know, the Amazon's burning worse this year than it was last year and blah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4559.8s	4559.8	 blah, blah. And I was like this, you know, fucking, and I threw it up on Instagram like eight o'clock
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4564.2s	4564.2	 at night and I'd never like, I'd never cursed on Instagram. I don't know, you know, why I just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4570.8s	4570.8	 never did. And I, my phone was on a hundred percent and I put it on top of the refrigerator
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4575.0s	4575.0	 and I went to bed and I woke up in the morning and my phone was on the floor on 2% and it was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4579.9s	4579.9	 ringing off the hook and it was like the news. And they're like, are you the guy that posted
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4584.8s	4584.8	 that viral video about the Amazon? And I was like, what? And that was the start. That's where it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4590.4s	4590.4	 broke. And that's where we went from barefoot in the Amazon to, you know, all of a sudden,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4596.3s	4596.3	 you know, I was talking head for three weeks and going around on all these news stations and all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4600.2s	4600.2	 of a sudden I was like the spokesperson for the Amazon and JJ's calling me and he was like, go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4604.2s	4604.2	 go, go, go, go, like, get us, get us that support. And it was just, you know, so, so communicating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4611.8s	4611.8	 with people and bringing them into that reality and whether it's, you know, rhino poaching and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4615.9s	4615.9	 elephant poaching or the Amazon being destroyed. It's like, to me, it's like being able to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4620.4s	4620.4	 to, to take people into that is, is something that I would love to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4625.1s	4625.1	 Yeah. And you do it directly with authenticity on your Instagram. People should definitely follow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4629.6s	4629.6	 your Instagram. I think, I think Rogan follows your Instagram too. Well, the end of that story
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4634.3s	4634.3	 actually kind of involves him because yet, cause, cause I went to all these news outlets and I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4639.8s	4639.8	 living in green rooms and traveling around and I was all strung out and I hadn't seen anybody. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4643.7s	4643.7	 actually know in a few weeks, which was starting to get to me and I finally got home and I went to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4648.6s	4648.6	 like a family party and everyone was like, dude, you've been, it's been crazy. And I was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4652.0s	4652.0	 yup. And then I left and my cousin Michael calls me and he's screaming and I'm going, what, what,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4656.2s	4656.2	 what, what, what? And he goes, Joe Rogan just shared it. Joe Rogan, you shared it. And everyone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4660.7s	4660.7	 was losing their shit. And it was so amazing. And it was like, yeah, that's when it really took off.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4666.2s	4666.2	 And what happened as a result of all of this is that a Canadian entrepreneur who started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4673.6s	4673.6	 Lightspeed reached out and several months later after COVID, after that boom, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4681.5s	4681.5	 I'd been in the game for maybe 13 years or something, had no money, no savings, no job,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4686.2s	4686.2	 no nothing. And after that great publicity thing, nothing happened. The waves came and everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4692.1s	4692.1	 got real exciting. Everybody reached out and they said, we care so much. Nothing happened though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4697.6s	4697.6	 you know, we can run into battle, but if we don't have our arrows in the quiver, what can we do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4702.9s	4702.9	 And I actually, I made a phone call to my friend Mohsen right at the start of COVID and I was going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4706.8s	4706.8	 through divorce and I was broke. And I said, I'm going to get a job. I said, I give up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4715.8s	4715.8	 So this is stupid. I said, the ecotourism business is done. Jungle keepers has dried up.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4720.7s	4720.7	 We're done. And then this guy, Dax De Silva called me on the phone and said, listen, I'm in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4725.1s	4725.1	 what do we got to do? And so if the analogy was me and JJ and a few other people trying to hold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4730.2s	4730.2	 this boulder back from just destroying the rainforest, all of a sudden Dax comes in like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4733.7s	4733.7	 a Titan and just puts his arm out and just goes, I'm going to help. And he gave us the funding to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4739.0s	4739.0	 start actually developing a ranger program, to start actually bringing loggers to be protectors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4743.6s	4743.6	 of the forest, to be supporting smaller conservation things. And now we're protecting 50,000 acres of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4749.5s	4749.5	 rainforest. We're protecting entire streams and ecosystems that I love. And we're soon going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4754.4s	4754.4	 double that. And it's like this whole thing. So yeah, the communication of these things is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4762.1s	4762.1	 crucial. And I actually think it's incredible that social media has played such a big role in it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4767.5s	4767.5	 Well, I mean, just because I know Joe well and I love him so much, I definitely think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4774.2s	4774.2	 you should do his podcast, but also just be friends with him. I think you guys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4777.9s	4777.9	 I think you guys are going to be able to do that. I think you guys are going to be able to do that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4779.1s	4779.1	 He's one, not to meme, but he's one with nature. And not much more with the, I'm one,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4787.8s	4787.8	 while I do appreciate and love nature, I also love technology and robots and so on. So in that meme
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4797.6s	4797.6	 type of way, we're very, very different. Well, either way, at some point, make sure you tell
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4802.9s	4802.9	 the guy, thank you, because it definitely really helped push us over that limit where,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4808.0s	4808.0	 if enough people see it, you get someone like Dax who says, I can help and I have the resources
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4813.8s	4813.8	 to help. And that changed our whole lives. Jeez, everything. Back to the jungle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4821.8s	4821.8	 You had a bunch of interactions with jaguars. How are you still alive?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4826.0s	4826.0	 Man, dude, jags aren't the, jags, I'll tell you this, jags are not the danger, the falling trees
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4832.4s	4832.4	 are the danger. I'll tell you some elephant stories and then you'll wonder why I'm still alive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4840.9s	4840.9	 So JJ started and Santiago, his dad started challenging me to do solos, go out alone into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4847.0s	4847.0	 the wild style. I'd have a hammock, a headlamp, three days worth of food, some fish hooks,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4853.1s	4853.1	 a machete, that's it. And so one of the stories that happened early on was I was out there and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4859.6s	4859.6	 it was raining and I was lost. And this is how we test your jungle knowledge. Can you survive out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4865.8s	4865.8	 there? Do you know how to find food? Have you listened to the things that we taught you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4869.6s	4869.6	 And there was one night that I was in a hammock and a jaguar came up and I was asleep when it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4876.2s	4876.2	 happened and she came up right next to my head and she was, and I could hear her smelling me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4882.4s	4882.4	 And then my first instinct was to turn on my headlamp and just the sound of my arm moving
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4887.9s	4887.9	 against the material. And she just, like she just right here, I could feel her breath.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4895.5s	4895.5	 And I just laid there in the dark. And that's one of those moments where you go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4899.9s	4899.9	 you really learn a lot about yourself because I wasn't scared. I felt like I understood the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4907.3s	4907.3	 intentions of the cat. If she was hunting, I'd already be dead. She was curious and I was lost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4913.4s	4913.4	 and I didn't know if I was ever going to get out of that jungle. But what she did was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4917.9s	4917.9	 energize me because it was an experience like the giant anaconda where I said, this is so wild
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4925.6s	4925.6	 that it's so almost cinematically outside the realm of what I thought my life could be like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4932.4s	4932.4	 that it made me like, wait, because the previous day I was lost, tired, confused,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4937.6s	4937.6	 kind of devastated, tail between my legs. After that, I was like, man, you've been waiting for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4942.2s	4942.2	 this your whole life. Go get it. And I woke up and I was like, I am going to navigate, even though
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4947.0s	4947.0	 I've been in this swamp for three days, I'm going to find my way out of this swamp. And she just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4951.0s	4951.0	 breathed fire into me where it was like, if that's possible, if I could be six inches away from a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4956.4s	4956.4	 jaguar's face, then I got that energy from her. So you're able to start to really hear and feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4965.6s	4965.6	 the jungle around you. Yeah. That was a sign that you know what you're doing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4970.2s	4970.2	 It really felt like a sign. I really did. How do you survive in a solo hike through the jungle?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4976.4s	4976.4	 What are the different components? What are the different dangers? So you said you had a hammock,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4980.0s	4980.0	 you had some food. What kind of food, by the way, are we talking about?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4984.6s	4984.6	 Stuff that won't go bad. So you can't really start a fire in the Amazon.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4990.2s	4990.2	 I'm a good fireman. I camp all over the place. I'm a wilderness guide. Starting a fire in the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=4995.5s	4995.5	 is futile. In fact, a lot of survival manuals will tell you don't do it because if you're really lost,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5000.1s	5000.1	 it'll break your spirit. You're not going to be able to do it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5003.8s	5003.8	 Yeah. They're like, don't even try it. But you can still get hypothermia from if you get wet and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5009.9s	5009.9	 lay out in the jungle, exposure can still get you. So you want fire. In the beginning, I used to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5016.8s	5016.8	 bring ramen noodles, which nutritionally is irrelevant. And so I started bringing nuts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5023.0s	5023.0	 and then supplementing that with fish, which forced me to become a very good fisherman.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5027.8s	5027.8	 Now, of course, JJ knows that they can cut certain roots and they bash it up and they put it in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5032.5s	5032.5	 stream and the fish just float to the top and they take with it. So he's got all the cheat codes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5038.8s	5038.8	 Whereas I'm sitting there with a hook and then he'll go, now find bait. And I go bait.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5045.3s	5045.3	 In the most competitive ecosystem on earth, good luck finding a worm. You can't do it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5050.1s	5050.1	 What does JJ do? He takes the machete, looks at his foot, cuts a slug of callus off of his heel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5055.9s	5055.9	 because he's got this thick rhino skin. Puts that on the hook, catches a six-inch fish,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5061.3s	5061.3	 chops it in half, puts it on a bigger hook. And in 15 minutes, he's got a four-foot giant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5066.6s	5066.6	 catfish that could feed a family of 16. And he's happy. I'm sitting there and I'm trying to stick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5072.4s	5072.4	 a beetle on a fishing hook. Do you have just a line and a hook or is there a rod too?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5077.5s	5077.5	 Just a line and a hook. And then you just chop a rod and tie it to the, you just chop a little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5082.8s	5082.8	 sapling. So are you still able to start a fire or no? I like for the food that I bring to not be fire
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5089.2s	5089.2	 dependent. And so if I have some nuts, I can shove in enough calories to get me through the night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5095.6s	5095.6	 or like, and leave a fishing line out and there'll be something there in the morning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5100.4s	5100.4	 But yes, I can start a fire, but a lot of times what I'll do is I'll bring a flask
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5104.8s	5104.8	 and not with like alcohol, but with diesel. And so you have a tuna can and you put the diesel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5111.1s	5111.1	 and this is what the local guys do. Everything I do, I'm sure there's going to be someone listening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5115.1s	5115.1	 to this and they're like, how could you do that? And it's like, this is what we do down there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5118.6s	5118.6	 Sorry. It's a, it's a tuna can. You pour a little bit of diesel in it. It burns slow. You light it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5123.4s	5123.4	 and you put your sticks, you make your pyramid over that. And eventually that will burn through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5126.7s	5126.7	 the moisture. And finally you'll get a very reluctant little fire enough to burn, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5131.3s	5131.3	 to make yourself like a cup of tea or to pour that into the noodles, something,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5135.5s	5135.5	 something, or you just eat a fish raw. How important is it to stay dry? Is it basically
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5140.0s	5140.0	 impossible? It's impossible to stay dry. You're wet all the time. You're wet all the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5144.0s	5144.0	 What does that mean? That means infections are more efficient.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5147.8s	5147.8	 Yeah. So yeah, I don't know if you saw the picture in my book where I have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5152.7s	5152.7	 yellow spots. Yeah. So yeah, there's a picture with your like entire face consumed with yellow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5160.6s	5160.6	 spots is basically, I guess that's MRSA. Yep. Oh boy. Yeah. So how did that happen? What,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5168.3s	5168.3	 what was the infection like and yeah, and how crazy are you for letting that infection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5175.7s	5175.7	 stay in you for a prolonged period of time without treating it? Or you had no choice.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5180.0s	5180.0	 No, I did have a choice. I was 19 years old and I was taking care of a giant anteater
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5184.1s	5184.1	 that was orphaned. And this is like my dream animal. Yeah. And she was mine. And my job was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5188.4s	5188.4	 to teach her the jungle. And so when I started like noticing that I had an infection and that I was,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5193.9s	5193.9	 I think I dengue at the time too, I went back to town, probably picked up MRSA in the hospital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5200.0s	5200.0	 where I got tested, came back into the jungle and then got progressively sicker and sicker and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5205.7s	5205.7	 weaker and weaker as I was two weeks, three weeks in the jungle. And then it got to the point where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5209.8s	5209.8	 my vision went black and white and I passed out one day and, and I don't know why, but at the time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5215.7s	5215.7	 I had shaved that day. And when I woke up the next morning, I couldn't open my eyes because the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5222.4s	5222.4	 the pus had come out of my eyes and out of my, the pores in my face, all those little micro cuts
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5227.2s	5227.2	 and the pillow was stuck to my face. And I was stuck up river with no help at 19 years old. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5232.6s	5232.6	 also when you, when you see that picture, you can imagine that I assumed that my life was over,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5238.6s	5238.6	 cause I didn't know what it was. And I also didn't assume that, or at the very least,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5242.2s	5242.2	 I figured I'd be disfigured the rest of my life. I didn't think there was any getting better from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5245.4s	5245.4	 that. And so I remember sitting by the side of the river praying that a boat would come by,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5249.9s	5249.9	 but it was the rainy season and there aren't going to be any boats because the river is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5253.1s	5253.1	 psychotic. And so it was a long time before I got back to town and I didn't want to leave the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5259.7s	5259.7	 anteater, but it became like, I was like, I realized I was dying. And then I finally got a boat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5265.8s	5265.8	 with some lagers, a death boat, just loaded with these guys were, had, had gone into the jungle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5271.7s	5271.7	 and shot everything they could and taken all the babies and they were going to go sell them. And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5275.2s	5275.2	 it was like baby monkeys and toucans and birds and cages and pieces of crocodiles and anaconda
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5280.8s	5280.8	 skins and jaguar skins rolled up. And it was just like, I was just laying there with all these dead
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5286.0s	5286.0	 animals in the boat, with all the flies on my face and got back to the hotel, called my mother,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5292.6s	5292.6	 said, please book me a flight out like today, like today. And then I sat on the plane and somebody,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5298.4s	5298.4	 somebody sat next to me on the plane and I had a hood on. And I do, I do remember that in my,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5303.0s	5303.0	 in the haze at this point, I was having trouble staying conscious, but I do remember that she
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5307.5s	5307.5	 looked over, trying to see what was sitting next to her. And then she got up and never came back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5313.3s	5313.3	 And when I got to immigration in New York, the cop, he takes my passport and he goes, yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5319.5s	5319.5	 He goes, so what are you doing in Peru? He's looking down and he goes, yeah. And he holds up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5322.3s	5322.3	 the passport, looks at the passport, looks at my face and goes, oh buddy. I said, no, that's what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5328.1s	5328.1	 he, I was like, I'm trying to get home to go to the hospital. He goes, he stamps it. He goes, go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5331.9s	5331.9	 go, go, go, go, God bless, God bless. He's like, oh shit. And then they put me in the room in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5336.9s	5336.9	 hospital with like the hazmat suits and they didn't know what it was. And I spent like five
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5340.2s	5340.2	 days on IV antibiotics with like four different things running through my veins. And the doctors
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5344.8s	5344.8	 were like, don't let it go that close. They're like, you went real close on that one. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5349.6s	5349.6	 That's what that picture, I mean, people should check out the book just to see the picture,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5354.0s	5354.0	 because I imagine you just laying there, unable to see, have a fever probably. So you're like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5361.0s	5361.0	 half hallucinating. Yep. And there's no, there's no boat. There's no, there's no way out. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5367.0s	5367.0	 no help coming. Plus there's this creature who you've become a parent of. Yeah. That you love.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5374.6s	5374.6	 Yeah. Boy, that's a dark place to be as a 19 year old. I mean, most people have never,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5380.5s	5380.5	 will never be in a place like that. Like where did you find strength in that, in those, in that place?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5386.7s	5386.7	 I don't know. I just remember writing like a goodbye letter to my parents because I said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5389.8s	5389.8	 if I die out here, it was really dark. Like it was, it was, it was terrifying. It really felt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5395.0s	5395.0	 like it was the end. And I was writing, you know, if you find me out here, I'm sorry. And all that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5401.4s	5401.4	 all that type of stuff. And it was, you know, I don't know about strength. There was no strength.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5406.3s	5406.3	 It was just like move forward. And at some point it was like, if you'll take me down river, take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5409.9s	5409.9	 me down river, you know, and you just got lucky with the loggers with the death boat that they found
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5415.7s	5415.7	 you. Um, well, how did the infection start by the way? I don't know. I really don't know. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5422.3s	5422.3	 we always have some sort of little shit, but the thing is now JJ taught me that there's like three
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5426.3s	5426.3	 different trees that can cure infections. I didn't know this at the time. I didn't know the cheat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5429.8s	5429.8	 codes. Now there's, there's, if you have a small infection, you can use Sangre de Drago and it'll,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5434.8s	5434.8	 it'll cure it right away. Like, let's say you have a bot fly and it gets a little pussy. There's a fly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5439.0s	5439.0	 living in your skin. You put that on there. Not only will it kill the fly, but it'll heal the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5443.1s	5443.1	 infection. Now, if you have a worse infection, you can go to Ohay, which is ficus insipida,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5447.4s	5447.4	 and you can use that and that will completely heal. That will murder. It's like crocodile blood. It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5452.0s	5452.0	 will murder infections. So like, forget Neosporin. That's a joke. These are heavy chemical compounds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5457.8s	5457.8	 running through these trees and they know all about them. And so whatever it is. So now at this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5462.4s	5462.4	 point, that's no longer an issue, like because we know how to handle it, which is at that time,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5466.9s	5466.9	 if JJ had been there, I would have been fine. Well, learning the hard way. So these are open
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5472.1s	5472.1	 wounds and then there's creatures that start living in them. It's basically what, what is it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5476.3s	5476.3	 Well, that's separate. That's bot flies. Yeah. There's, there's a, there's a creature that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5480.2s	5480.2	 unfortunately very, very, very unfortunately, um, likes to make its home inside the flesh of mammals.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5487.9s	5487.9	 Yeah. And so the flies attach their eggs to mosquitoes. The mosquitoes go and seek out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5493.9s	5493.9	 warm blooded animals, the eggs, microscopic eggs fall into your skin and then begin to grow. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5499.4s	5499.4	 sooner or later you feel a Twitch and it's a worm living inside of you. That's like vertical down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5504.7s	5504.7	 in you and it's, it's eating you. And at first it's not a problem, but when they get to about as thick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5509.5s	5509.5	 as that pen, it starts to hurt because you got a hole in you and they have a little breathing tube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5514.2s	5514.2	 that comes up and they breathe and they go back in and then they eat and they come back up to breathe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5518.0s	5518.0	 and you have a, you have a friend living in you. Um, and it's had one of those. I've had lots of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5524.2s	5524.2	 those. It's tough to take them out. They have hooks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5530.3s	5530.3	 How do you, do you have to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5533.7s	5533.7	 you gotta love the junk. So how do you take it out? You have to come.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5537.0s	5537.0	 A hundred percent. Uh, you gotta, you gotta put an irritant. So like a lot of times what we'll do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5541.8s	5541.8	 down there is some, someone will take a massive drag of a cigarette and then they'll spit the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5548.2s	5548.2	 they'll, they'll power like exhale and get some of the, some of the tar, which also shows you how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5552.6s	5552.6	 much tar you get out of a cigarette. And then with a knife and you put that right over the hole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5557.8s	5557.8	 and then you slap some Vaseline or something on top of that so they can't breathe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5561.6s	5561.6	 And eventually over the course of a few hours, they'll come up enough looking for air. And then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5567.0s	5567.0	 you got to grab them with a tweezer and try not to rip them. Cause then you're going to get an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5569.8s	5569.8	 infection and you got to squeeze from the, but it's a whole ceremony. When people have botflies,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5573.7s	5573.7	 we're all like, Oh, it's botfly time. Let's go. And then like JJ will squeeze. He's got like pliers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5577.8s	5577.8	 for thumbs. He can like take a piece of your neck and you think he's going to break your skin.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5583.4s	5583.4	 He'll just squeeze until this thing comes out. And you don't want to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5588.3s	5588.3	 you don't want to, there's an open wound right there. And yeah, you don't want to bathe for a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5591.4s	5591.4	 day or two after until that closes. Cause otherwise you're going to have like water sloshing around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5595.5s	5595.5	 in like a little pocket of yours. This is kind of gross. And that water might have other organisms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5600.6s	5600.6	 that water in your skin tends to, yeah. I mean, the jungle water is clean. We drink it. Like I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5605.8s	5605.8	 drink the water fresh out of the stream. Oh, that's interesting. Well, it's just a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5609.8s	5609.8	 giant filtration system. All those roots, the whole jungle is constantly purifying everything.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5614.8s	5614.8	 People might be thinking about that with the jungle. There's insects probably all over you all the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5620.2s	5620.2	 It's not as bad as you think. Like I've been to, to, to Finland,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5625.3s	5625.3	 Lapland in the summer and the mosquitoes are horrendous, like devastating the Amazon in,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5631.8s	5631.8	 in our area. If you're sitting in a hammock, reading a book out, you know, our research
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5637.0s	5637.0	 stations don't have walls or anything. You're good for about one, one mosquito every half hour,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5642.6s	5642.6	 which really is not a lot. I mean, it's worse in New Jersey. Like it's really not that bad.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5647.8s	5647.8	 Tell me a little more about the little baby anteater, Lulu, who you've, who you've rescued
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5654.5s	5654.5	 and had to sadly leave behind. Yeah. I just was always fascinated with giant anteaters or this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5658.8s	5658.8	 you know, German shepherd sized thing with Wolverine claws and these giant pop-eye forearms.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5664.9s	5664.9	 And they excavate ant and termite mounds and they have this long tongue and their babies right on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5671.6s	5671.6	 their back for the first six months of their lives. And so they actually have this incredibly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5675.1s	5675.1	 intimate relationship with their young. And it just so happens that this animal that I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5680.8s	5680.8	 wildly fascinated with, there was an orphan on the river and JJ was like, you love these things.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5686.8s	5686.8	 And I was like, yeah. And so he went and he was like, Hey, my friend, you should, he got,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5690.4s	5690.4	 he got me the baby. And we were like, we're going to rewild her. And so I spent like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5694.2s	5694.2	 weeks and weeks and weeks just like with this thing on my back, crawling through the jungle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5698.6s	5698.6	 teaching her to find ants, giving her milk, falling asleep with her on my chest. And their tongue is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5704.5s	5704.5	 like 11 inches long at that age. And so she, when she wanted me to wake up, she'd fired up my nose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5708.7s	5708.7	 and would come out my mouth and she, and then if I tried to get her off me quick, she'd stick the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5713.4s	5713.4	 claws in and, you know, I'm all my clothes. I have like, I have old like, you know, now they're like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5718.0s	5718.0	 you know, like museum pieces with rips in them from, from Lulu's claws.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5721.4s	5721.4	 RG Just able to also communicate emotion and feeling and all that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5724.5s	5724.5	 JJ She needed it. She needed it. So that this animal didn't have the physical touch.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5729.1s	5729.1	 If we didn't, if I didn't hold her all day long, she'd throw tantrums, she'd go shred something,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5734.2s	5734.2	 she'd go pull down the curtain, she'd go ruin the woods. She'd start literally having
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5739.9s	5739.9	 a traumatic response to not having intimacy, which was shocking. Cause again, on the scale
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5746.9s	5746.9	 of a cockroach to an elephant, you go, I didn't know that giant anteaters had such intense emotions.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5753.1s	5753.1	 But she did. And we, we, you know, and also taking care of her forced me to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5759.6s	5759.6	 to explore the jungle from the perspective of an animal. So I got to like be an animal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5766.1s	5766.1	 And so there's only a few times in your life, in my life where I've gotten to do that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5769.9s	5769.9	 you know, one was with her. Another time was living with a herd of elephants where I had to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5773.8s	5773.8	 walk with them through the forest and like, see how they interacted completely natural.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5782.6s	5782.6	 And it's, it's, it's different. It's very different. And you realize like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5786.6s	5786.6	 just like a person's public persona when they're out on the street in Manhattan is going to be very
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5791.4s	5791.4	 different than when you're on the couch with them on a Tuesday night. And, and, and with wild animals,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5796.3s	5796.3	 it's very much like that. You know, like if we see, you see a bobcat on a trail and it's going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5799.8s	5799.8	 look at you and glare at you and then go off and it's like, yeah, but what's it like when it's in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5803.8s	5803.8	 the den and it's playing with its cubs. Yeah. So that when it's looking at you, that's like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5809.3s	5809.3	 the Instagram posts it's making the actual. Yeah. So you've, besides Amazon, you spend a lot of time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5816.7s	5816.7	 in India. Can you tell me what you learned hanging out with a herd of elephants?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5823.5s	5823.5	 Yeah. Well, what should, what do people not understand about elephants? That's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5828.2s	5828.2	 that's beautiful to you. That's interesting to you. First of all, I think that elephants should have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5832.6s	5832.6	 government representation as like a subset of society. Like actually they, they have intelligence.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5839.0s	5839.0	 They are so intelligent. And, and when you look at an elephant, so there's this question that keeps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5845.0s	5845.0	 coming up of, you know, are we, are we smart enough to know how smart animals are? Can we,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5849.6s	5849.6	 can we interpret the intelligence that we're seeing? And I've, I've, I've, I've lived with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5855.3s	5855.3	 semi wild herd of elephants in India for a while. And some of the things that I saw, like changed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5861.9s	5861.9	 how I view reality, to be honest with you, cause you know, you watch a matriarch of an elephant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5868.0s	5868.0	 herd walk up to someone that none of us knew was pregnant and her trunk goes to her stomach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5873.0s	5873.0	 And then she calls all the other ones over and they're interested in this little human that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5876.2s	5876.2	 that they know that there's something in there and they're, and they're all conversing about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5880.5s	5880.5	 And you go, whoa, or that every morning we'd wake up and the elephants didn't want the stream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5884.8s	5884.8	 water. They didn't want the lake water. They want puddles. They wanted the water from our well.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5889.0s	5889.0	 We had like a stone well, you know, like a traditional, and every morning it's like run
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5893.7s	5893.7	 out of bed because all the elephants were going to come and they were going to rip the bucket
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5896.9s	5896.9	 off and destroy everything, but they wanted that nice, cold, clean water. And so we had to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5902.7s	5902.7	 and so it was like caring for elephants that were wild. There were sometimes getting shot at by
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5908.1s	5908.1	 farmers. Cause if they went to try and rob some bananas, so these are sort of like delinquent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5912.4s	5912.4	 elephants that were half wild in the forest department was thinking about, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5916.4s	5916.4	 getting rid of them, which whatever that meant. And, uh, I made really good friends with this one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5922.4s	5922.4	 elephant and his name was Dharma and, uh, Dharma had the, had the, this stuff doesn't, this is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5928.2s	5928.2	 it's hard to write the book I'm writing right now because none of it sounds real.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5932.1s	5932.1	 He, he grew up around people because he was a tuskless male. So he couldn't hang out with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5937.0s	5937.0	 the females cause he was a grownup male and he couldn't hang out with the males, the bulls,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5941.3s	5941.3	 because he couldn't defend himself when they rough housed and everything. So Dharma would be like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5945.8s	5945.8	 wandering around the forest, not knowing who to hang out with. And so like there was one night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5951.0s	5951.0	 there was a tiger calling and we just heard, you could hear it echoing over the hills.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5956.6s	5956.6	 And what does Dharma do? 2 a.m. we hear Dharma show up and he's same thing. He starts throwing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5962.0s	5962.0	 a tantrum. He starts pulling shit over. He says, takes a chair, throws it. We had bananas in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5968.5s	5968.5	 truck. Dharma walks up to the truck. It's like a Jeep. He walks up to the Jeep, smells it. He
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5973.4s	5973.4	 looks at me and he's like, are you going to get out of bed? I'm like, no, I'm not going to get out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5976.7s	5976.7	 of bed. I was like, Dharma, you're a grown ass elephant. The tiger does this thing again. He's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5981.1s	5981.1	 like, I need bananas to feel better. Pushes the truck up on two wheels. Looks at me. Is this how
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5988.6s	5988.6	 you want it to be? So I'm up and I go and I'm like, please, please, please, please, please,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5993.4s	5993.4	 Dharma, I'm rubbing his face. And he's like, he puts it down. He's like, all right, well then,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=5997.9s	5997.9	 hit me. I didn't do it. So he lifts it up again. And so in the end, there was no way for me to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6003.3s	6003.3	 outsmart the elephant. He wins. There was nothing I could do. And so a lot of my job was taking him
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6008.9s	6008.9	 out into the forest and spending a little bit of time with him. I have this beautiful,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6015.0s	6015.0	 one time I set up the tripod and I went and I was just journaling. And he would come and he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6019.2s	6019.2	 would just play with my hair and he'd be like, hey, what's up? He wanted someone to interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6025.6s	6025.6	 on an emotional level. And when you think about elephants in terms of the fact that people go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6032.6s	6032.6	 they use medication to induce labor. It's like, yeah, that's not that surprising. They hold the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6037.9s	6037.9	 bones of the dead. It's like, yeah, they have the best smell of pretty much any animal. That's also
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6041.7s	6041.7	 not surprising. They probably know exactly who that was, that bone, but they can navigate to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6047.8s	6047.8	 water holes and communicate in ways that we cannot really figure out. And so when you hear about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6053.5s	6053.5	 people measuring elephant intelligence, you'll hear about scientists being like, oh, well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6058.2s	6058.2	 we gave it a bucket with a hole in it. And then it had like a key and there was a rope. And you're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6062.2s	6062.2	 like, bro, this is all human stuff. Can you go walking with them for three weeks in the wild
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6069.1s	6069.1	 and watch how they deal with the problems that they encounter in the forest? And so elephants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6073.8s	6073.8	 have become, especially recently with the work that I've been doing in Africa with Betpaw,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6080.5s	6080.5	 I've just become so fascinated with elephants. And the African elephant population right now is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6089.8s	6089.8	 down at 2% of what it was a few hundred years ago. We're really putting them on the brink of,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6095.8s	6095.8	 there's some elephants that are being born tuskless because poaching has taken down
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6102.7s	6102.7	 the great tuskers to the point where now it's actually beneficial for some elephants to not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6106.9s	6106.9	 have tusks because they won't have humans. But that's like we've created deformed elephants.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6110.9s	6110.9	 And so now I've gotten very concerned with issues of elephants.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6116.5s	6116.5	 And tusks are fundamental to the interaction between elephants.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6119.4s	6119.4	 Absolutely. I mean, when males compete with each other, but also elephants use their tusks,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6124.1s	6124.1	 they'll break a branch and they'll be like, this is a good branch. I'm going to eat the hell out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6127.4s	6127.4	 of this. And they'll like hang it on their tusk and they'll like grab a bunch of other stuff.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6131.1s	6131.1	 They'll like hold it. Ripping a tree up out of the ground. I just watched it two weeks ago.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6137.0s	6137.0	 I was watching an elephant. He got down on his knees and stuck his tusk into the ground and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6142.6s	6142.6	 leveraged up. He like Archimedes to this root out of the ground and then was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6147.1s	6147.1	 that's a sweet root. And then when he left, I went and I tasted the root and it was like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6151.1s	6151.1	 sweet ginger. And I was like, I have no idea what this is, but he knew it was good.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6154.8s	6154.8	 Do they use tusks for sexual selection, like to impress the ladies or no?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6158.2s	6158.2	 It's certainly involved in who has mating rights. Oh, who wins in the competition.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6163.4s	6163.4	 Who wins. I mean, if you've got the big tusks and there are elephants out there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6166.3s	6166.3	 like the mammoth big tuskers that have tusks down to the ground, like huge. And when you see them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6173.3s	6173.3	 it's like seeing something unique on earth, unique in history. Because we're at a point
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6176.7s	6176.7	 where we might lose those. There are only a few of them left. And then they're so prized by hunters.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6181.7s	6181.7	 Yeah. It's interesting. Cause I, I forget what the actual conclusion on that is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6186.3s	6186.3	 Cause there's some studies of the use of the value of beauty in evolution, like birds and peacocks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6193.3s	6193.3	 and so on that there's no actual value to it, but it plays a role in, in sexual selection,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6202.5s	6202.5	 meaning value. Like it's much easier to understand competition. Like a tusk helps you defeat. Sure.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6207.8s	6207.8	 The competitor. It's a tool. But I bet you there's a component to the tusk where the ladies go,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6212.6s	6212.6	 God damn, that's a nice one. Like there's a visual beautiful component. Maybe not. I don't know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6217.8s	6217.8	 But what if beauty though, as we're defining it though, is, is, is symmetry and the, the absence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6224.2s	6224.2	 of yellow spots on your face and, and healthy looking hair. And so like, I think to us beauty is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6231.7s	6231.7	 sexually appealing traits that look good to meet with. And so,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6235.8s	6235.8	 So that, that 19 year old with Marissa, everybody in the world was swipe left on that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6241.4s	6241.4	 Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6242.6s	6242.6	 The least sexually desirable object in the universe. Okay. What you mean speaking of elephant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6248.7s	6248.7	 intelligence and something I think and work quite a bit on as with artificial intelligence is what
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6255.6s	6255.6	 the philosophical question that comes up is what is intelligence? What is intelligent?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6262.1s	6262.1	 Humans, homo sapiens are often thought to be highly intelligent. That's the reason they stand out.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6271.2s	6271.2	 In your understanding of different species, like the elephant, what stands out to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6278.6s	6278.6	 about humans or are they just another animal with different kinds of intelligence?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6285.8s	6285.8	 Well, we're certainly unique because we have altered the entire planet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6290.6s	6290.6	 Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6291.1s	6291.1	 You know, the term the Anthropocene, I mean, it's like, we've literally created a geological layer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6295.3s	6295.3	 of us, whereas other animals don't. And going back to elephants, it's like, they also engineer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6302.6s	6302.6	 their environment. If you're in a forest, like if you drop me in a forest on earth, I could tell you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6307.2s	6307.2	 in two seconds, if there's elephants there, because this twisted branches and excavated earth and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6313.4s	6313.4	 and they're constantly gardening. But I mean, look at us. I mean, we're clearly unique in nature,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6324.5s	6324.5	 which makes me not understand the anti-human sentiment that so much of environmentalism has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6330.3s	6330.3	 about like, you know, like we're bad, we're damned, we ruin everything. And it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6335.1s	6335.1	 I've seen the worst. I've seen the burning Amazon and I'm still like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6339.2s	6339.2	 I love being able to share ideas with you and travel to places and FaceTime my family when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6344.6s	6344.6	 I'm not around them. And it's like, I celebrate a lot of what makes us human. And I, it's almost
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6351.0s	6351.0	 like reality is this crazy video game. And it's like, if we could just figure out the right keys,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6356.3s	6356.3	 we can pretty much do anything we can think of. And it's like, I mean, poetry, art, I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6362.2s	6362.2	 I'm the biggest animal lover in the world, but we are, we are, we are different. We really are.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6369.3s	6369.3	 Yeah. The ability to puzzle solve, create tools. I think it's the coolest invention
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6377.2s	6377.2	 humans have come up with. Is it fire? What's the most impactful?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6383.8s	6383.8	 I feel like fire is fire. I feel like fire is kind of a gimme. I feel like the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6387.3s	6387.3	 they didn't really invent it. They probably like the wheel flying. I mean, flying. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6393.3s	6393.3	 think of, think if you could go back in time to someone that never flew, you know, a Sultan,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6399.0s	6399.0	 an Egyptian King, George Washington, you know, and be like, you can fly. I mean, this is just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6406.0s	6406.0	 just on my way here. And I fly way too much, but I was looking out the window at the clouds and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6411.2s	6411.2	 going, this is unbelievably spectacular. It's just stunning. You know, as a kid, you, you look at a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6418.6s	6418.6	 cloudy day and you go, this is the world is like this today. And then you get in a plane and you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6424.3s	6424.3	 fly above the clouds and it's sunny up there and you go, Oh, it just, it changes your perspective.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6430.0s	6430.0	 It's like when people go to the moon and they come back and they tell you the pale blue dot,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6433.8s	6433.8	 you know, just, I say, I say flying, I think the ability to fly. I mean, the fact that I could,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6439.4s	6439.4	 I could get on a plane and be in India and, you know, 20, 22 hours is shocking.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6445.2s	6445.2	 In terms of its usefulness, I would argue that's not in the top five, but in terms of its ability
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6451.6s	6451.6	 to inspire, there's a, somebody I forgot who told me this idea that there's something about the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6459.4s	6459.4	 atmosphere or atmosphere that allows you to look up and see the stars. Like if we didn't have that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6465.4s	6465.4	 human civilization would not have happened. Meaning like being able to look up and see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6470.0s	6470.0	 something out there would fill our, like the something that allows you to look up versus
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6477.0s	6477.0	 just look down to like first looking at your local environment, be able to like wander and see,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6485.0s	6485.0	 Holy shit, there's a big world out there. I don't know anything. If, if, if you're able to look up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6492.2s	6492.2	 and see that, that kind of humility combined with the ability to dream about exploring,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6499.8s	6499.8	 maybe it just inspires the exploration. It's kind of an interesting thought given how inspiring,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6505.6s	6505.6	 for example, the, the extra upgraded super cool version of flying, which is flying to other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6512.4s	6512.4	 planets. I mean, there's going to be, hopefully it's possible this century, a child born, no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6521.7s	6521.7	 not this century, maybe the century, a child born on another planet that looks up and looks back at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6528.4s	6528.4	 earth and has to be educated by his, her parents that like, there's another place. There's another
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6539.0s	6539.0	 place where life is way easier. Oh God, so easy. There's water everywhere. Exactly. People complain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6546.9s	6546.9	 about earth. Man. Earth is really, really good. It's really, really good here. Water everywhere.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6554.5s	6554.5	 Anything. I wouldn't even leave it given like right now, like if somebody said like, oh, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6559.0s	6559.0	 could like, you could go to the moon. I'd be like, no, I'm good. If I died in space, I'd be so pissed.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6564.4s	6564.4	 I love it here. Yeah. But you're still, there's a longing to explore for you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6569.8s	6569.8	 There's a longing to explore, but I really think I'm, I'm such a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6574.2s	6574.2	 like my longing to explore is like river streams, oceans, jungles. Like to me, yeah, I would,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6580.6s	6580.6	 I would watch the hell out of the, the live stream of, of, of Elon touching down on Mars. Like I'd be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6586.9s	6586.9	 like, this is incredible. It's an amazing that I get to be around to see this. I'm staying where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6593.1s	6593.1	 I'll be right here. Yeah. But it's good that the human spirit pushes us to know it's amazing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6598.5s	6598.5	 What's possible. And it does that for you. What, um, just a out there questions that what's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6604.8s	6604.8	 what's the most dangerous animal in the Amazon would you say? Mammal. Let's go with mammal.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6611.8s	6611.8	 Dangerous mammal. Like dangerous in terms of you walking around doing the solo hike.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6617.8s	6617.8	 I'm going to disappoint everybody with this, but it's, it's, it's humans. It's nothing. There's no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6622.7s	6622.7	 if I'm out in the Amazon, there's nothing that's going to attack me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6626.2s	6626.2	 You know, and in, in India, you might have, you might have an old leopard or a tiger that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6631.3s	6631.3	 missing a tooth that decides your prey, or you might have an angry elephant that's in must,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6635.8s	6635.8	 that just decides to, just decides to flatten you in the Amazon. You're not, there's real Jaguars.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6642.8s	6642.8	 Won't even let you see them. Yeah. And there's really nothing else. One of my friends, a brilliant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6647.8s	6647.8	 scientist friend of mine, Pat got attacked by a rabid ocelot ones, but that's like a diesel house
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6653.1s	6653.1	 cat just having a fit. You know, it's wasn't the worst thing in the world. It's just the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6658.0s	6658.0	 assholes kingdom. Okay. What, in terms of humans, you've said that the tribes, some of them
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6667.0s	6667.0	 uncontacted can be exceptionally dangerous. What's your experience with them? What should people learn?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6672.4s	6672.4	 Cause it's such a fascinating part of life here on earth that there's tribes that don't have much or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6679.5s	6679.5	 any contact with the quote unquote civilized world.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6685.9s	6685.9	 Most of the people that I meet don't actually really understand how, how isolated these people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6693.0s	6693.0	 are or how weird it is that we're sitting here and that we have iPhones and airplanes and all this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6697.7s	6697.7	 stuff. And these people are living naked in the forest at this moment. And so the, the, the thing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6706.3s	6706.3	 though, you know, I also was recently, somebody, somebody said, oh, there's like paleolithic tribes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6710.3s	6710.3	 and it's like, no, no, no, just by default, they're modern tribes living now. They just happen to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6716.6s	6716.6	 living out in the jungle. And there's a huge debate about, you know, do we try and contact them and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6720.1s	6720.1	 bring them in? And there's two camps of people on this who they said that it was, it was, it was the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6725.7s	6725.7	 trauma of the rubber boom that sent them out that far into the forest and made them terrified of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6730.6s	6730.6	 outside world. And so that's also what made them so hyper violent. I mean, they're, they're, I,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6737.8s	6737.8	 there's one of the guys we work with on our team, Victor was in, I think it was 2004, he's coming
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6744.0s	6744.0	 down river and he had a load of mahogany wood and he's piloting this boat. And he sent two people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6752.2s	6752.2	 husband and wife ahead to go start cooking breakfast on the beach so they could put the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6755.8s	6755.8	 little kitchenette thing down and pick, put the propane. He sent them ahead as the, he's going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6761.7s	6761.7	 nice and slow with the barge coming down the river. They go ahead, reach the beach, they get out, he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6766.5s	6766.5	 starts cutting some cane to start making a fire. Tribe comes out, no warning. They just start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6772.7s	6772.7	 screaming. They start shooting arrows. The man instantly gets an arrow through the leg and it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6777.8s	6777.8	 pins his legs so he can't run. He tells his wife, go save yourself. And she does. She jumps in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6783.1s	6783.1	 water. There's arrows falling around her too. And as she's floating down the river, she looks back.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6788.1s	6788.1	 And the last thing she sees is these guys getting to her husband and beginning to rip him apart.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6794.1s	6794.1	 As Victor comes down the river, this is a guy we work with every day. He comes down the river
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6799.8s	6799.8	 and sees his friend disemboweled, opened up, dissected. His parts are all over the beach.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6806.6s	6806.6	 The beach is red. And they only found out what happened because they found her later on holding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6811.4s	6811.4	 onto a stick in the river. And they're like, what happened? And she was like, they just attacked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6816.2s	6816.2	 They don't want people on their land. On the sort of the underground WhatsApp chain of the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6824.6s	6824.6	 in August, this was not internationally known. Some loggers went up and tried to steal a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6831.0s	6831.0	 trees from where the tribes were. And then everybody sent the pictures of what the loggers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6835.1s	6835.1	 looked like after a few days because the tribes porcupine them with arrows. They were laying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6838.8s	6838.8	 there on the ground with just arrows sticking out of their bodies. And then eventually the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6843.0s	6843.0	 authorities came out and looked and there was just these white bodies. I'll show you the pictures
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6847.3s	6847.3	 later. There's just these white puffy bodies with like the skulls sticking out. And it was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6851.8s	6851.8	 you don't mess with these tribes. I wonder what's the mythology around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6858.2s	6858.2	 that they construct around who these outsiders are? Are they gods? Are they demons? Are they humans?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6864.8s	6864.8	 Who are they? Who are we to them?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6867.9s	6867.9	 Well, you got to go back to the rubber boom. The rubber barons went down there and at the start
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6872.6s	6872.6	 of the industrial revolution, the only way to get rubber was to mine it from the trees that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6877.7s	6877.7	 were out in the forest. And so the only way to do that, because you can't make a rubber plantation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6882.0s	6882.0	 in the jungle. The rubber, when it's in plantation form, when it's a monoculture,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6886.6s	6886.6	 it gets this leaf blight and it all dies. Henry Ford tried it, it didn't work. And so what they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6892.1s	6892.1	 did was they sent these people down who just whipped, burned, enslaved, raped and pillaged
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6897.2s	6897.2	 the people. It's one of the worst periods in human suffering that I've ever read about.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6902.3s	6902.3	 One missionary said they were killing the locals the way you or I would kill a mosquito.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6906.9s	6906.9	 They just went nuts. And so they sent them out and they would come back with rubber and this would go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6912.5s	6912.5	 to fuel the industrial revolution for hoses and gaskets and tires and all this stuff that suddenly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6917.0s	6917.0	 we needed. And it was during that time that these gangs of foreigners would go into the jungle to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6925.6s	6925.6	 enslave the natives, that these uncontacted tribes went back into the jungle and said, not us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6931.8s	6931.8	 And they have six foot bows and seven foot arrows with bamboo tips. They make the bamboo tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6940.0s	6940.0	 into razor blades. And so when those things fly, actually one of my rangers, one of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6946.3s	6946.3	 jungle keepers team was present when the tribes had come out onto the river and he tried to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6955.4s	6955.4	 help them because they're nomadic and they live out there. And so there's an element of like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6959.7s	6959.7	 brother, like they're trying to be like, you don't need to be like this. Like we're friendly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6964.8s	6964.8	 So they sent a canoe across the river with bananas. And so he's up to his waist in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6969.3s	6969.3	 river and the tribes are right across the river and they shot and he sees the arrow coming right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6976.6s	6976.6	 at his head. And as he moved to the side, it hit him at the temple and sliced him back towards the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6982.6s	6982.6	 ear, opening him to the skull. He's fine. But let me tell you something, when he goes and gets a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6987.9s	6987.9	 crew cut, it's the most bad-ass skull, the scar you've ever seen, man. And so he always keeps it
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6993.0s	6993.0	 real short on that side, but even if you try to help them, they're not necessarily friendly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=6998.6s	6998.6	 That's a tough lesson. Yeah. I suppose they have a point.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7005.4s	7005.4	 They have a point and protecting them is a default of, now that we're protecting all this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7010.9s	7010.9	 ecosystems and all these other indigenous communities, it's like, we all sort of live
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7014.2s	7014.2	 with this knowledge that they're the hermanos, the brothers are out there and that's the way they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7019.3s	7019.3	 want to keep it. And so we just have to be respectful of like, you don't camp on certain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7023.0s	7023.0	 beaches at certain times of the year, because we know that they might be there. You really have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7026.8s	7026.8	 be careful about that. Have you yourself interacted with any?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7030.3s	7030.3	 My interaction with them came on a solo where I pushed it a little bit too far.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7035.5s	7035.5	 And I was planning to do a three week, this was like the big one. And I got dropped off by poachers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7042.9s	7042.9	 up a river and I went past the point where they were like names. I said, what tributary are we on?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7048.5s	7048.5	 And they were like, tributary. And I was like, okay. And I said, leave me here. And I remember
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7053.6s	7053.6	 the guy being like, are you committing suicide? And he didn't understand that. I was like, no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7057.6s	7057.6	 I have a backpack and I have like food and like, how I'm going to like take videos and I have a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7061.7s	7061.7	 tripod. And I was like, we're cool here. And they looked at me like they were like, goodbye. And I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7066.4s	7066.4	 was like, all right. And I went up this river. And again, like you just, you learn these things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7072.2s	7072.2	 like, you know, it was only when I'd been alone for a week that you realize you're,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7077.3s	7077.3	 what's that saying? They're like, oh, you're born alone and you die alone. It's like, no,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7080.7s	7080.7	 you're not. You're born into a room full of people. Usually at the very least, your mother's there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7085.3s	7085.3	 for everybody. And so you've been around people, probably if you're a normal person, every single
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7092.2s	7092.2	 day of your life, you've seen dozens, if not hundreds of people. And all of a sudden you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7097.3s	7097.3	 realize what a social creature we are because on day six, it gets weird for me. It got weird.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7103.5s	7103.5	 I know there's people that can do it longer. So what does that mean? Like longing for contact,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7108.3s	7108.3	 like are you lonely? Longing for contact, the distortion of reality in the sense that like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7113.8s	7113.8	 you know, you wake up and there's no one there and you start to, you know, you're going up a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7118.5s	7118.5	 river. So I would keep, I kept looking back down river and almost thinking of my life as something,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7125.7s	7125.7	 it was almost like I had already died and I had gone to somewhere else. And I was looking back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7130.2s	7130.2	 on that life as like something that I had experienced. And then there came this panic of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7135.4s	7135.4	 what if it's gone or like, what if world war three broke out? And I just don't know about it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7139.7s	7139.7	 My family in New York is vaporized and something just, you just, you're, you're, you're,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7144.6s	7144.6	 actually your ability to comprehend and interpret reality kind of requires other people. It's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7150.6s	7150.6	 just that you're lonely. You need that contact to actually just perceive the world, make sense of it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7156.8s	7156.8	 all of that. So you start basically hallucinating a certain kind of way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7160.2s	7160.2	 I started feeling very uncomfortable. It doesn't help also that like Santiago told me these stories
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7166.7s	7166.7	 where he's like, if you hear Capuchin's sounding, not quite monkeys, if you hear Capuchin monkey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7172.1s	7172.1	 sounding not quite like Capuchin's, he goes, it's the tribe and they're coming to get you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7176.5s	7176.5	 And then the guy who was shot, Ignacio, they showed me videos where we saw them on the beach
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7183.8s	7183.8	 and they're communicating in monkey calls. They're using it as code so that we don't understand them,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7189.1s	7189.1	 even though we don't speak their language, but they're, they're using animal calls. And so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7193.2s	7193.2	 every night you go to sleep and then you go, did that tinamou sound off? And you're like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7197.4s	7197.4	 shit, you know, and it's really hard to fall asleep. And then like one night I messed up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7201.9s	7201.9	 I left a fish. I like cleaned this fish. I ate like this huge fish. I just ate it to my face.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7207.2s	7207.2	 You're, you're putting out like marathon levels of energy every day. Like, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7211.7s	7211.7	 Goggins would love solos. He'd be like, this is awesome. Yeah. You eat the fish raw.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7216.9s	7216.9	 This one, I actually cooked it, but you know, the skeleton was laying there right outside my tent.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7221.4s	7221.4	 Stupid. And then the middle of the night I wake up and I just could tell there was something there,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7226.6s	7226.6	 you know, and then like, you almost don't want to look. It's like when you're a kid at the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7229.3s	7229.3	 basement door and you're like, is there a ghost? I like unzipped the tent and I like open it up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7234.9s	7234.9	 and there's like 27 black caiman outside of my tent all looking at me like this. And like some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7239.8s	7239.8	 of their heads are this big and they're like, there's fish there. Can we have it? And I'm like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7244.2s	7244.2	 holy shit. And like, you know, I was like, do I, I kind of like had to like scooch the tent back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7249.4s	7249.4	 and like move back and let them have their fish. And there was a host of crocodiles outside of my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7254.6s	7254.6	 tent. Yeah. Um, but no, so then there was, there was like 27, maybe there's a lot, big ones, small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7261.7s	7261.7	 ones, medium sized one, every type. They were all there and their eyes glow in the night. You know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7265.8s	7265.8	 you shine a light at animals and they have a tapetum lucidum. And so their, their eye shine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7269.5s	7269.5	 comes back at you. If you shine a headlamp at a, at a Jaguar or a frog or almost every animal has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7275.2s	7275.2	 a tapetum. So these are croc. There's a whole lot of them. Yeah. I thought, can we go back to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7280.6s	7280.6	 part of the conversation where you said the jungle is not dangerous? The humans are the most dangerous.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7285.0s	7285.0	 Did they eat me? No. Why didn't they eat you? They wanted the fish. Is there some way of you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7290.0s	7290.0	 interacting with them that shows that you're not a source of harm? I don't believe so. I'm sure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7295.6s	7295.6	 there's someone out there that thinks they can talk to crocs, but. Cause there's a, there's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7299.4s	7299.4	 story of you grabbing a croc by the tail. What did you learn from that? Learn to not always listen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7304.6s	7304.6	 to JJ. So JJ was testing you to, uh, to see how stupid it was. How do you hold the croc out?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7311.4s	7311.4	 Exactly. You have to get them by the head, like an anaconda like this. And so,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7315.6s	7315.6	 so you're one of the world experts at grabbing creatures by the head. I wouldn't say world expert,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7320.8s	7320.8	 but I've done a lot of it. Um, I also have, you see that there's like kind of a ball there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7325.0s	7325.0	 That's where a crocodile tooth went in that side and like came out that side of mine.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7328.6s	7328.6	 That was a really good chomp. And the watch I was wearing at the time saved me cause that like that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7334.8s	7334.8	 Um, real fast, just chomp, just whack. Like somebody took a sledgehammer,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7338.7s	7338.7	 you put your hand on the table and I just went, really hurt. Um, shouldn't have been doing that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7345.3s	7345.3	 How did that come up? Cause I caught a croc that was too big. So usually when we catch little
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7348.8s	7348.8	 caiman in the streams and we measure them to monitor the populations, um, you get it by the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7353.8s	7353.8	 neck. And then I tuck the tail under my arm and I hold it and he's talking about a little,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7357.6s	7357.6	 you know, four foot croc, nothing. And I, I, this one, I dove into a, into a swamp and I caught
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7364.2s	7364.2	 like a six foot spectacle caiman and her head is big and I had her by the neck and I realized I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7371.4s	7371.4	 couldn't get her tail under my arm because her tail was all the way back there and she started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7374.7s	7374.7	 thrashing and it was like probably croc number 375 that I'd caught. And I just got a little cocky
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7382.1s	7382.1	 and I said, ha, she's, you know, I just, I just like grabbed her by a leg. I was like, I got this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7386.0s	7386.0	 and she just came back and tagged me and I went, okay, gonna go back to being safe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7391.3s	7391.3	 Just to linger on it. What, uh, is it one of the, one of the bigger predators in the Amazon?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7398.1s	7398.1	 What, and it's, is it going to, uh, are they going extinct black caimans?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7402.3s	7402.3	 Black caiman were, I believe they were critically endangered for a while because for a while the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7406.7s	7406.7	 fashion industry loved their skin. It's soft and it's black. Um, they're bouncing back a little bit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7413.3s	7413.3	 now, you know, like most animals, if you leave them alone, they'll be fine. I mean, crocs have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7419.8s	7419.8	 been through, you know, how many millions and millions of years on earth before us. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7423.9s	7423.9	 that's even the joke with, with the joke, but that's the grim reality of tiger conservation.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7428.7s	7428.7	 It's there was a hundred thousand tigers in 1900. Now this 4,000 tigers left on earth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7435.4s	7435.4	 It's not rocket science. All you have to do is not bulldoze their forest and allow there to be some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7441.9s	7441.9	 deer and tigers will be fine. That's it. It's so simple. And that's like sometimes where I feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7448.6s	7448.6	 like I have the dumbest job in the world. I'm like, guys, please stop killing the things that keep us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7454.4s	7454.4	 alive. The Amazon regulates our global climate, produces medicine is home to indigenous people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7460.8s	7460.8	 It's beautiful. Rainforests only cover 3% of the planet's landmass. Like it's not that much to ask.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7468.6s	7468.6	 If you leave their home untouched, they'll figure out how to have sex and multiply
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7472.7s	7472.7	 except for pandas. Apparently because you have to convince. Yeah. Um,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7477.4s	7477.4	 humpbacks, humpbacks, they went down to, they went from 130,000 down to I think about 8,000
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7484.3s	7484.3	 at whaling times. And then when we banned whaling since that time, where I think we're back up to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7489.3s	7489.3	 over a hundred thousand humpback whales, they've bounced back. It's a success story. We're not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7493.2s	7493.2	 going to lose them. Okay. So you're in a, on a solo with a crocs looking at you. See, this is why
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7501.0s	7501.0	 you're good at this. You know, I would have lost. We would have been, no, that's pretty epic with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7505.1s	7505.1	 the fish. That was your mistake. That was my mistake. I don't understand why you're still alive. I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7512.2s	7512.2	 it's really inspiring when you come, we're going to, I'm going to show you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7515.1s	7515.1	 Okay. You told me you're coming. Yeah. 100% coming. Yeah. But you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7521.6s	7521.6	 if there's any place, I mean, um, sort of a grim joke, but if there's any way to die,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7529.1s	7529.1	 that's a good one. If I'm being honest, it's a cool one. It's a pretty cool one. It'll become
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7534.1s	7534.1	 part of the party. Yeah. I mean, there's, it's not even like joking. There's a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7538.3s	7538.3	 there's a oneness to the whole thing. All the stories, just reading your work,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7544.2s	7544.2	 looking at your work, I, it seems like you're a part of this machine that is nature. The, this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7550.4s	7550.4	 this incredible machine, like we all die and we're all part of this big thing that humans do have the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7560.2s	7560.2	 capability to also construct narratives and stories and myths and tell them to each other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7564.6s	7564.6	 and share them with each other and have more sophisticated ways therefore to communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7569.8s	7569.8	 love to each other. But animals do as well. They communicate love, maybe more simply,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7575.3s	7575.3	 maybe more honestly. Anyway, so you're, you were the crocs and the fish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7581.6s	7581.6	 Yeah. So I messed up. I left the fish out, croc showed up at some intent,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7585.8s	7585.8	 but in the end it was fine. I, I, I backed off. They had their way with the fish and then they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7590.2s	7590.2	 all started biting each other. It was fun to watch. Is that a general, sorry to interrupt.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7593.6s	7593.6	 Is that a general rule? You want to not leave? Yeah. Just like if you're camping in the Northeast,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7598.5s	7598.5	 you don't leave, like you do a bear bag or a bear canister. You don't, you don't want to invite
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7603.3s	7603.3	 the wild animals. I really did mess up. I kind of was just like, you know, whatever. I do this every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7607.8s	7607.8	 now and then I get a little too cavalier. And the, the ocean has almost, almost taken me down for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7614.2s	7614.2	 that a few times. But yeah, so the crocs and then you keep going for a few days. And my plan was to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7620.0s	7620.0	 get to a point where I reached the end of the tributary and this had a very,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7628.5s	7628.5	 you know, again, for me, this is like a pilgrimage. This is like, this is like me going into the heart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7635.0s	7635.0	 of the, the very center and soul and essence of everything that I am fascinated with, like as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7641.9s	7641.9	 close to God as you can get, because you're leaving every type of security, every human
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7647.3s	7647.3	 relationship, you're also pushing all your chips in. And so it's, it's, you know, the, every step
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7655.1s	7655.1	 I took further up river, it got weirder and weirder and more intense. And every day and every moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7660.8s	7660.8	 it changed. And I would, I brought pictures at the time, there's no way to keep a phone charged. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7664.8s	7664.8	 didn't have like a power bank or anything. You know, I brought pictures from home. I brought a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7669.8s	7669.8	 I brought a national geographic magazine, something just to, you know, and there came a day right when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7678.8s	7678.8	 I was getting to the end, like to the point where the river was so shallow that it was just a trickle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7684.0s	7684.0	 and I was walking on the rocks and the Andes mountains were in front of me and I was like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7688.0s	7688.0	 reaching the place and the music was swelling. And then all of a sudden I saw smoke around the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7695.0s	7695.0	 next bend. And I, I like my spine is reacting right now as I talk about it, because I knew,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7704.2s	7704.2	 I knew what I was going to see because I knew that it was impossible for loggers to be out there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7708.6s	7708.6	 There's no motor that could take you. The boat would have run aground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7711.6s	7711.6	 miles ago. And so I went, and this is the other, this is the other idiot thing. It's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7716.2s	7716.2	 just turn around. Just do it. I'm that kid though, when you see like a wet paint sign,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7721.0s	7721.0	 like I walk by and I touch the wall. And so I, I, I went around the bend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7730.0s	7730.0	 and, and I see, I see a few naked people on the beach and they see me and we're like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7737.6s	7737.6	 a good distance apart. It's there on the other side of the river, but you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7741.8s	7741.8	 arrow in hand, bow in hand, the intention of pose. They're looking at me. They're clearly conversing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7749.8s	7749.8	 And that moment lasted for a long moment where I said, this is the part of the story where they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7756.5s	7756.5	 are going to rip me apart, dissect me to see what I eat. I mean, every other story in the region that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7763.3s	7763.3	 we've heard, that's the ending of it. If you're alone with these people, it's not going to go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7768.4s	7768.4	 well. And I have nothing to defend myself with. And I just, I turned and I ran for like three hours
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7776.3s	7776.3	 and I got in the river and I swam for a while and all my food got wet. I mean, everything, I just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7782.3s	7782.3	 you know, all just ran for dear life and my, my get out plan, the thing after I crossed the mountains
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7789.7s	7789.7	 and came down into the next tributary was I had a pack raft and so tiny little inflatable raft,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7795.7s	7795.7	 good enough to handle rapids. And I inflated the pack raft once the, once the river was like six
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7800.8s	7800.8	 inches deep, I inflated the pack raft and I went and I went for the rest of that day into the night.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7806.5s	7806.5	 I went into the point that my headlamp died and I was just floating, floating in a raft down the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7811.3s	7811.3	 Amazon and hitting into things. And I was like, I'm going to, I'm going to pop this raft. So I got
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7815.6s	7815.6	 out of the raft, set up my tent and I was like, I need some sleep. I was freaking out. I hadn't had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7819.5s	7819.5	 food and now, you know, hours and hours and hours. As soon as I fell asleep, my asshole brain comes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7825.8s	7825.8	 up with the dream of that. I hear voices, they're right outside the tent. I just, you know, sleeping
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7831.4s	7831.4	 was worse than being awake. So I woke up, got back in the tent and then at one point it was really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7836.6s	7836.6	 cool. Cause one of those, one of the same black caiman that had come for the fish as I'm going
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7841.4s	7841.4	 down river, he came right up next to me and the two of us were going and he was just like motoring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7845.1s	7845.1	 down river, this giant like 16 foot crocodile. He just like came up to me and like looked at me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7850.4s	7850.4	 as I was going. And it was funny cause I wasn't scared of him. I was scared of them. And yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7856.0s	7856.0	 it took me like a week to get back to town. And again, the things you learn in these moments,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7861.6s	7861.6	 the, you know, the appreciation for your parents, the, what a hug feels like, you know, when you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7869.6s	7869.6	 when you are faced with pretty much certainty that you're not going to get those things again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7876.9s	7876.9	 whether it's from MRSA or uncontacted tribes or, you know, I find that it brings, it brings,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7883.6s	7883.6	 it brings you this new joy for life where you-
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7886.2s	7886.2	 RG Just being that close to death.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7887.9s	7887.9	 AC Yeah. You go, you go, my God, this is all a miracle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7891.2s	7891.2	 RG It's sad because they're human just like you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7897.0s	7897.0	 Actually, how different are they? Like if you were forced to interact for a week together,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7904.0s	7904.0	 where they can't, they're not allowed to kill you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7905.8s	7905.8	 AC Not allowed to kill me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7908.2s	7908.2	 RG What would they, are they, how fundamentally different are they? Do you think?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7912.6s	7912.6	 AC I don't think they're different. I think they're like any other Amazonian natives. They're,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7917.1s	7917.1	 they're tall. They seem to have tall genetics. And there's places, you know, again, there's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7923.4s	7923.4	 there's what is known and then there's what we know down there. Like there's, there's one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7927.5s	7927.5	 community where I don't know whether it was like a bad rainstorm or something, but some kid from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7931.7s	7931.7	 the uncontacted tribes did end up in a village. And so he learned Spanish or he learned whatever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7937.4s	7937.4	 dialect they speak in that village. And so he's told us a little bit about what life was like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7943.8s	7943.8	 with them, but like, they're just people. They're just people. They have their own culture. They
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7948.6s	7948.6	 know about medicines that we don't know about. They definitely have hunting practices that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7953.0s	7953.0	 that we don't understand. They can hit a spider monkey out of 160 foot tree with a bamboo arrow.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7958.6s	7958.6	 We can't do that. I mean, they are incredible hunters and also like living naked in the jungle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7964.6s	7964.6	 with the bot flies and the mosquitoes. I don't know how they do it. Like sometimes at night.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7969.5s	7969.5	 And again, we don't have night vision, whereas almost every other animal does.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7973.9s	7973.9	 And sometimes we'll be sitting, you know, on our, you know, at the resource station at night and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7979.2s	7979.2	 we'll be just drinking and like looking out and at the, you know, we'll do, we'll scare each other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7983.0s	7983.0	 We'll go, you know, you realize if they were out there right now, they could be looking at us. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7985.7s	7985.7	 it's like, the truth is, is that when it's dark out there, they can't see, it's not easy to start a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=7992.5s	7992.5	 fire with matches and a lighter and gasoline. They do it with friction. They have some, some beads on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8001.4s	8001.4	 survival that we could really learn from. Not to mention that then you have people that believe
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8009.0s	8009.0	 that they are actually the guardians of the extinct giant ground sloth. And what they're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8013.6s	8013.6	 is, you know, living out there because they're protecting a secret population of previously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8017.7s	8017.7	 extinct megafauna, but there's all kinds. I mean, this, it's like you, you go into the crypto world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8022.6s	8022.6	 so quick. I've heard so many people be like, but then again, you have to be humble at how little we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8028.5s	8028.5	 know about, about that world, about the world of life. Like you said, there's so much of life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8034.6s	8034.6	 in the Amazon that we don't, creatures with no names. Tons of them. We could go out on a night
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8040.0s	8040.0	 walk right now and I could show you something that, you know, you, I've done it. You, you, you, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8044.0s	8044.0	 pick up a bug and you go, that doesn't look right. That's not right. He's got three heads. Yeah. You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8051.5s	8051.5	 know, and then you send it to, to the, the, the greatest expert on that genus of insects and,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8056.6s	8056.6	 and they go, look, I got no idea. And you're talking to a world expert and it's like, that's it. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8063.3s	8063.3	 then 50% of the life is up in the canopy. And so like, we started climbing the trees, like rock
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8069.0s	8069.0	 climbing, like what Alex Honnold does, like, well, like I'll climb up 50 feet and then I'll put a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8073.8s	8073.8	 safety, like I'm basically trad climbing and then I'll climb up another 50 feet and I'll have JJ
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8078.1s	8078.1	 belaying me from below. And then he'll be like, Ooh, look, a snake. I'm like, JJ, pay attention.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8083.0s	8083.0	 Like you get up there and the, the branches are as thick as this table. So you can like walk around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8088.7s	8088.7	 freely. It's like total like avatar when they're in the floating islands, like you can,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8093.0s	8093.0	 you can go run around if that's what you want to do. Bromeliads, orchids,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8097.7s	8097.7	 cactuses, because up there it's against the sun. So it's a different environment. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8102.5s	8102.5	 Interesting. And then you start seeing lizards and snakes and birds and things that aren't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8108.0s	8108.0	 down on the ground. And so how many scientists have actually gotten to really spend time up there and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8115.0s	8115.0	 really inventory the life. And that's why when you hear about you like it, it's like a taxonomical
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8119.6s	8119.6	 discussion of how many species there are on earth. They're like between, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8123.0s	8123.0	 10 and 30 million. And it's like, wow, that's a big, it's a big swing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8128.7s	8128.7	 What about stuff on the ground? So you mentioned some insects. What about bullet ants?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8133.6s	8133.6	 So it's supposed to be the most painful bite in the world. You've been bitten by one seven or eight
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8138.0s	8138.0	 times. Yeah. What does it feel like? Okay. So the first time that we ever did bullet ants,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8143.0s	8143.0	 JJ said, you know, okay, this is what we're going to do. He goes, you know, it's bullet ant roulette.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8149.7s	8149.7	 We're going to get a bullet ant and you get like chopsticks. You like pick up this bullet ant and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8153.5s	8153.5	 they're big, they're big and they're tough. Like he goes, we're going to put our forearms together
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8159.2s	8159.2	 and we're going to drop the bullet ant and clamp our forearms together and just rub. And whoever,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8164.8s	8164.8	 whoever it takes, it takes. Yeah. Of course, JJ did not get stung and I did. And it hurts every
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8170.9s	8170.9	 bit as much as they say it hurts. It really let me have it. And then, and then I was like hitting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8175.1s	8175.1	 my arm against the table to try and like kill it or get it off, but it was holding on and just like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8179.8s	8179.8	 really injecting the venom and yeah, really letting you have it. And then it travels up and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8186.3s	8186.3	 it goes into your like lymph nodes and into your here and you get a headache. And, and I think the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8191.4s	8191.4	 the, the brilliant thing about the, the, the venom of a bullet ant is that it makes you feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8198.6s	8198.6	 likes like this, this feeling of alarm. It makes you feel like something's wrong.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8203.5s	8203.5	 You don't just go out. This hurts. Like it's like a bee sting or you are, this really hurts on my
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8207.4s	8207.4	 hand. It's like, no, no, no, no. Your whole nervous system is freaking out and you start sweating and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8213.3s	8213.3	 then you get cold and then you're tired and then you get a little blurry vision and it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8216.8s	8216.8	 and that's actually that bad. I mean, now after six or seven, I get bitten and I'm like kind of okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8221.8s	8221.8	 So it's a full body, full mind experience. It's a full body, full mind experience. But then there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8226.4s	8226.4	 places in the Amazon where they stick their hand in a glove with like 70 of them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8230.9s	8230.9	 Right. And I think Steve-O did that, which I would, I just don't understand how you could do that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8235.0s	8235.0	 without going into complete anaphylactic shock and dying. Cause one really sucks.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8240.9s	8240.9	 Well, just like, just like we said with animals and with humans, there's different kinds.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8245.8s	8245.8	 Definitely a special, unique, the first of his species.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8249.0s	8249.0	 On the point of uncontacted tribes,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8262.6s	8262.6	 it's interesting to think about what kind of civilizations have there been.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8269.8s	8269.8	 This is something that you've talked about a little bit. Graham Hancock has written about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8275.9s	8275.9	 ancient civilizations as sort of challenging the conventionals, the mainstream thinking about the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8281.8s	8281.8	 civilizations that have been there in the Amazon. Can you steel man and criticize the idea,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8288.6s	8288.6	 so the pro and the con of the idea that there have been ancient, advanced ancient civilizations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8293.4s	8293.4	 in the Amazon? Like how much do we know? What are all the possibilities of what's in the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8299.3s	8299.3	 of what's in the Amazon in this past? So like when Oriana went down the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8306.2s	8306.2	 the reports were that there was great civilizations in the Amazon. And then, you know, a few hundred
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8311.3s	8311.3	 years later, when people got to actually check up on this stuff, it was all gone. And so was that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8315.6s	8315.6	 because of disease that we wiped out all these civilizations and these communities of people,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8320.4s	8320.4	 potentially, probably, was he just wrong? Probably not. This is a guy that navigated by the stars
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8326.7s	8326.7	 back to Spain after building his own boat. Or was he trying to just, I don't know, I don't know. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8333.1s	8333.1	 there clearly is a long history of complex civilizations in the Amazon, 100%. There's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8340.2s	8340.2	 no one that can deny that. The thing that I reacted to was that I've heard videos, I've seen
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8348.6s	8348.6	 moments in podcasts where the narrative becomes not, there's more ancient civilization information
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8355.9s	8355.9	 in the Amazon than we previously thought. True statement. We're discovering with Lidar,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8361.3s	8361.3	 and this is what Graham Hancock is talking about, that we're discovering constantly that there was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8366.0s	8366.0	 more civilizations than we thought in various places. The place where I take offense is where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8375.7s	8375.7	 they start to say that the Amazon, there's actually articles that are titled this, that the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8382.2s	8382.2	 is a man-made garden, which is not true. So the actual, which I think is a really different idea,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8392.0s	8392.0	 that the entire ecosystem and everything we've been talking about, all the species,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8397.9s	8397.9	 all the forestry and the different, just life, life, one of the most diverse ecosystems on earth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8405.8s	8405.8	 is initially created by humans. It's ridiculous. Well, it's not, first of all, it's unlikely,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8413.1s	8413.1	 but it's not ridiculous. So we can't, there's no ridiculous in science,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8420.6s	8420.6	 but the complexity of life is very difficult to engineer. The more you study about biological
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8427.3s	8427.3	 systems and so on, it's very difficult to create the kind of things that nature is able to do.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8432.1s	8432.1	 That said, I don't know if you've heard, but the entire earth, the world has gone through a pandemic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8439.4s	8439.4	 recently, and everybody said, of course, it's natural origins, viruses mutate all the time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8447.5s	8447.5	 And nevertheless, it seems more and more likely that in this particular case, it was an artificial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8453.6s	8453.6	 origin leaked from a lab. So humans are able to create stuff, at least modern, technological,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8460.3s	8460.3	 genetic engineering. Made golden retrievers. Come on.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8466.5s	8466.5	 You can't be that nice and that good looking. Used to be a wolf. Yeah. But so that bothers you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8473.4s	8473.4	 because it allows you to think that we don't need to preserve the Amazon, we can always engineer it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8480.0s	8480.0	 Yeah, exactly. Then just this is just to me, that's a slippery slope. Like I totally,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8484.3s	8484.3	 I'm a fan of expeditions to find ecological ruins and to learn more about the ancient civilizations,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8494.4s	8494.4	 which I don't think is what he's putting out, is that then sort of like news articles,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8498.8s	8498.8	 which I think they're trying to bait you where they're going, was the Amazon manmade? And it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8502.6s	8502.6	 like, yeah, because then you're going to get a Brazilian president that goes, see what they said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8508.6s	8508.6	 it's manmade. So we might as well continue to engineer it and manage it. And it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8513.8s	8513.8	 there's such complex systems and interactions and such a giant web of life there that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8521.5s	8521.5	 at least in my opinion, is clearly one of the most authentically natural things. And again,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8530.2s	8530.2	 are there things that we've engineered? Dude, the uncontacted tribes, sometimes they have banana
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8535.0s	8535.0	 plants that they've stolen and we could see it from the air that they have banana plants. We made
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8539.4s	8539.4	 banana plants that's engineered by us. We know for a fact. Agricultural engineering.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8545.3s	8545.3	 Agricultural engineering and stuff like that, but suggesting that the Amazon basin,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8551.9s	8551.9	 it's just a weird way to think about it. I've just heard people dismiss the protection of the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8559.4s	8559.4	 based on the fact that like, oh, well, if people made it and it's such a giant leap from zero to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8566.2s	8566.2	 100, is there slash and burn that the ancient civilizations did? Of course. Are there areas
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8573.9s	8573.9	 that were affected by people? Of course. I just get worried when we start talking about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8578.6s	8578.6	 it was a manmade thing. Yeah. Hear you loud and clear on that. And I personally think that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8585.4s	8585.4	 completely separate from wondering about what the ancient civilization have been able to accomplish.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8591.2s	8591.2	 Oh, sure. It's almost really sad because if all the humans on earth die now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8595.6s	8595.6	 how long does it take before all signs of humans ever existing disappear? For the most part.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8605.0s	8605.0	 From an alien perspective. What timeline are we talking about? I mean, like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8609.8s	8609.8	 I mean, there's there's a hundred thousand years. Like it could be less. It could be like a few
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8614.6s	8614.6	 thousand because a hundred thousand is complete destruction. A hundred thousand is like nothing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8619.4s	8619.4	 But then it could be in just a few hundred years, it starts becoming, you know, the government of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8626.3s	8626.3	 the alien civilization is going to have to pay quite a bit of money to do the research.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8630.6s	8630.6	 Because they're going to find other life first. They're going to find the dolphins and the fish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8635.3s	8635.3	 and so on. They're going to find the trees. Maybe the trees are the interesting thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8639.3s	8639.3	 Sure. The buildings are not that interesting. The crumbles. But there must be examples of cities
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8643.5s	8643.5	 that have been left unattended for a few decades and like how quickly the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8650.2s	8650.2	 plants push up through the street and everything starts to get broken down.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8653.2s	8653.2	 If you really look, you'll be like, oh, there's some interesting geometry here for the buildings
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8656.9s	8656.9	 and so on. But most of the computer stuff, all the stuff of the past hundred years,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8662.6s	8662.6	 the airplanes, all that, all the technologies, all the paperwork,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8667.3s	8667.3	 all the hard drives that store all the information. I want to actually know how long it takes like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8671.6s	8671.6	 747 to biodegrade. Like how, if you just leave it there, sitting on the runway,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8677.0s	8677.0	 society stops. How long does it take for that thing to disappear? Like that's a weird-
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8681.9s	8681.9	 Completely versus to a point where it's undefiable might be different. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8687.5s	8687.5	 I mean, the point I'm trying to say here is as you've brilliantly put the Amazon churns.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8695.6s	8695.6	 Yeah. Oh yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8696.6s	8696.6	 And the fact that I wonder throughout its history, what are the peaks of the awesomeness?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8706.2s	8706.2	 How many banana, how many agricultural, Einstein's of bananas were there? The creating different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8712.9s	8712.9	 kinds of ideas, different kinds of geometry, different kinds of tools.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8716.6s	8716.6	 Well, yeah, look what the Incas did. I mean, the Incas, Machu Picchu, I mean, when they found,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8720.7s	8720.7	 when Hiram Bigam found Machu Picchu, it was covered in jungle. You could hardly see it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8724.9s	8724.9	 And I mean, the stonework they did much like what the Egyptians did with the pyramids,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8729.3s	8729.3	 a lot of it, we don't really understand how they did it. If you come to the jungle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8733.1s	8733.1	 you got to go to Machu Picchu because it's not far from there. And I usually like, I'm the person,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8739.0s	8739.0	 like I won't, I don't usually go see like the, you know, like I've never been to see the Taj Mahal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8743.6s	8743.6	 after living in India for five years. Like I'm just not, but when you look up and you see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8747.6s	8747.6	 Machu Picchu, you go either they were communicating with the gods there or these people were so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8754.1s	8754.1	 smart that they knew that anybody they brought, they were going to impress. They've built something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8761.7s	8761.7	 there that when you look up at that mountain, you go, whoa, with those giant stones, the beauty of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8768.1s	8768.1	 it, you know, it's just stunning to imagine that there was this culture of people that could achieve
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8774.4s	8774.4	 this. And so through the Amazon, I mean, that's sort of up in the Andes, but there's all kinds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8780.0s	8780.0	 of stuff in the Amazon. There are places where they say there's pyramids beneath the canopy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8786.5s	8786.5	 that we just don't know about. I mean, there's, it's endless.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8790.6s	8790.6	 RG If you had billions of dollars, trillions of dollars, what would be the efforts in the Amazon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8798.8s	8798.8	 for both conservation and for exploration? Which are tied together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8804.3s	8804.3	 AC Yeah, exactly. First arrest the deforestation so we don't have an ecological crisis on our hands.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8809.4s	8809.4	 We don't want to keep losing species, losing indigenous cultures, losing the climate stabilizing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8814.3s	8814.3	 services that the Amazon provides as a whole. Stop that. That's my first mission. Next,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8820.5s	8820.5	 then we can play. And then it's like, let's go find, I mean, I've flown over the Amazon and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8827.2s	8827.2	 assessed none. It's like, you see things where you go, we have to go see what that is, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8831.9s	8831.9	 weird lakes or shapes in the jungle that don't make sense, that are, that are, that are strange.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8839.4s	8839.4	 RG So even at that level, you can see weirdness. You can see different,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8842.3s	8842.3	 AC Oh yeah. RG like signs of possible awesomeness.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8845.2s	8845.2	 AC Oh, the jungle is so weird. And here's the other thing is that most, so like the region I've been
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8850.4s	8850.4	 working in, you see where the researchers go. There's certain biological stations, there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8856.8s	8856.8	 certain places where like, oh, like this university has a relationship with this, this university,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8861.5s	8861.5	 is this. So everybody goes to the same few study sites and then they walk on the same trails and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8866.9s	8866.9	 they have the same guides. When you fly in a Cessna and you fly a few hours away from all that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8872.9s	8872.9	 and you see a tiny little tributary and then you fly for 40 minutes over unbroken green, just wild
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8879.7s	8879.7	 before you reach another tributary. Even if somebody could survive going up that tributary,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8886.2s	8886.2	 had the expeditionary expertise and the ability to survive getting shot at by arrows, if they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8891.3s	8891.3	 could get up that tributary. Now go cut perpendicular into the jungle, which I don't do
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8898.2s	8898.2	 on the solos. You can't, you can never, don't ever leave the river. But you're telling me that in that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8903.6s	8903.6	 span of 70 miles between tiny tributaries at the edge of the world, no one's been there. None of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8910.2s	8910.2	 us have been there. You know, maybe somebody 10,000 years ago was there, but we don't know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8915.0s	8915.0	 what populations of things are there. We don't know what ruins are there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8918.6s	8918.6	 And so there's so much undiscovered stuff in the Amazon that is just waiting, just waiting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8925.0s	8925.0	 What is the process of exploring that? So how does money get converted towards exploration?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8932.4s	8932.4	 Is there, is there safe ways of doing that?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8935.9s	8935.9	 There's places where, you know, we found out about things that have to be explored,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8940.7s	8940.7	 but where you come up with, well, how do we do this without getting shot? And not only without
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8947.0s	8947.0	 getting shot, but also without endangering them too. Because how stupid are we if we,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8952.0s	8952.0	 if we go in there to people that are living in the jungle, not bothering us, and we go insert
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8956.7s	8956.7	 ourselves into there because we're curious about some rocks. That's, that doesn't seem fair for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8961.7s	8961.7	 loss of life. And so like, um, but yeah, that's, that's something that we're working on. And like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8967.0s	8967.0	 one thing of course is like LIDAR and stuff, but eventually, eventually at the end of everything,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8971.8s	8971.8	 it comes down to boots on the ground. Yeah. As somebody who has to ask that very question about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8978.1s	8978.1	 how to deal with uncontacted tribes, they're, they're going to kill you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8981.9s	8981.9	 but you also don't want to disturb their environment. If you were an intelligent alien
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8987.3s	8987.3	 civilization, oh boy, and you came about earth, how, how would you interact with it? Can you put
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=8996.0s	8996.0	 yourself in the mind of an alien civilization? Cause there seems to be some parallels here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9003.2s	9003.2	 It is actually right. It's like a microcosm of- We're very aggressive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9007.2s	9007.2	 Human civilization is very aggressive. So if we were easily, we get threatened easily. Yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9014.6s	9014.6	 For stupid reasons. Cause we start like American military probably thinks it's like the Chinese or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9019.8s	9019.8	 the Russians. If we see any kind of flying objects, it gets very on edge. I don't know.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9027.0s	9027.0	 I mean, cause you know, part of it is like, you just want to ask, like that's the thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9030.2s	9030.2	 I just want to ask questions. Yeah. But you, you know, but you don't know the same language.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9033.6s	9033.6	 You're going to get, you're going to get, first of all, you send a boat of bananas,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9036.2s	9036.2	 you send a boat of bananas, you get shot. Um, I mean, picture if aliens landed in New York,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9040.6s	9040.6	 how long would it take for one of them to get shot? It'd be minutes. If you find it'd be a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9045.1s	9045.1	 matter of minutes. Yeah. That's cause it's New York and everywhere else. Look where we are right
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9050.1s	9050.1	 now. That's true. It'd be even worse here. Yeah. Uh, that makes me really, makes me wonder what is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9057.8s	9057.8	 the right way to interact with, uh, intelligent life. That's not like our own. I hope I, I dream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9065.7s	9065.7	 of in our lifetime, we would interact with possibly life on Mars or on one of the moons of Jupiter or
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9073.5s	9073.5	 Saturn. And like, how do you interact with that thing? Well, there's very technical, biological,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9079.5s	9079.5	 chemical processes, but also if there's any kind of intelligence, how do you try to communicate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9084.8s	9084.8	 with that intelligence? Yes. So we're not talking about like a cockroach or talking about like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9088.4s	9088.4	 something that's clearly like doing things, making things. Well, cockroach possibly. How do you know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9092.9s	9092.9	 the difference between a cockroach? Like, how do you know? We were just talking about this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9096.9s	9096.9	 Yeah. We don't know. We don't know. We have just like a race of like philosopher cockroaches,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9101.8s	9101.8	 chilling on the rocks. Well, here on earth, we kind of, there seems to be a strong correlation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9106.8s	9106.8	 between size and intelligence. Like, yes, it seems like the bigger things have bigger, uh,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9113.9s	9113.9	 nervous systems and brains. And so they're usually smarter, but that doesn't, I think it's brain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9119.7s	9119.7	 It's the ratio brain to body. Sure. Cause you have like crows that are up among the most intelligent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9125.4s	9125.4	 and it's like the size of the brain to the size of the body. But there also could be kinds of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9130.2s	9130.2	 intelligence where we're completely, we're not appreciating. Maybe cockroaches, it's survived the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9135.5s	9135.5	 longest. They're talking shit about us right now. It's dumb humans. They got, these rocks are so
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9142.3s	9142.3	 great. Couple of hundred years. Exactly. Did you ever, you ever hear that Kurt Vonnegut where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9147.8s	9147.8	 two space travelers get lost? This, this, this really impacted me as a kid. Cause my dad was an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9152.2s	9152.2	 English teacher. So he's always quoting Dostoyevsky and, uh, and Kurt Vonnegut. And there's this,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9158.2s	9158.2	 two space travelers get like crash landed in a cave and on the walls of the cave are the harmoniums
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9164.6s	9164.6	 and these, these kite shaped animals and they feed off the vibrations of the cave. And that's all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9168.7s	9168.7	 they do. They don't hurt each other. They just do that. And so for like two years, these travelers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9173.7s	9173.7	 are stuck and they're trying to fix their ship. And one of them starts playing music for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9177.6s	9177.6	 harmoniums and the harmoniums love him for the music and they all come around him and, and he
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9183.4s	9183.4	 plays this music for him. And finally they, they fixed the ship. And then the one guy is like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9189.4s	9189.4	 all right, let's, let's get out of here. And the other guy's like, you know what I'm staying.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9194.4s	9194.4	 He goes, I found a place where I can do good. I'm not hurting anybody and they love me. Yeah. I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9200.9s	9200.9	 staying right here. Yeah. This whole ambition thing we've got going on, always trying to build
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9206.6s	9206.6	 a bigger boat, bigger thing that might not be the ultimate conclusion of a, of a happy existence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9215.4s	9215.4	 as a civilization. That's probably, that's one of the possibilities why we haven't met the aliens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9220.6s	9220.6	 yet at scale is because they're, once you get good enough at technology, you realize that happiness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9227.4s	9227.4	 lies in a peaceful coexistence. It's possible. So where do you stand on like aliens now? Like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9235.4s	9235.4	 there's a lot coming out about the, the pilots and the, the things people have been seeing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9240.1s	9240.1	 And again, like I kind of come in and out of this stuff, like I'll be in the jungle for three months.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9243.3s	9243.3	 I miss, I miss a lot. So like update me like, or are we, are we being contacted right now? Like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9249.2s	9249.2	 of course nobody knows, but I tend to believe my intuition says this. There's aliens everywhere
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9254.4s	9254.4	 that the, the, our, even our galaxy. Sure. That's a bigger leap, but I believe our galaxy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9261.9s	9261.9	 has probably billions, hundreds of millions of planets with life on it, like bacteria type
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9271.7s	9271.7	 of life. And I believe there is, I don't know, thousands of alien, intelligent alien civilizations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9280.2s	9280.2	 that exist or have existed. The problem is there's a lot of time and it's very difficult
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9285.7s	9285.7	 to contact each other. So to achieve a kind of civilization that's able to actually send out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9294.3s	9294.3	 enough signal or radiate enough energy where we would notice, I think that's really tough.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9301.6s	9301.6	 That said, statistically speaking, it seems like that should have been possible inside our galaxy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9305.9s	9305.9	 or maybe nearby. And so I suspect that once an alien civilization is just many orders of magnitude
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9319.0s	9319.0	 smarter than us humans, the way it would contact us is going to be very difficult for us humans to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9325.9s	9325.9	 understand. We're very egocentric. We want the message to be sent as like a, in English
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9333.6s	9333.6	 versus, you know, I think consciousness itself, emotion,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9343.3s	9343.3	 thoughts could be like fingertips, could be words in the story that the aliens are telling us
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9353.9s	9353.9	 or things that are just like a low dimensional projection of a much higher dimensional message
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9361.0s	9361.0	 that's being sent by aliens. And it may be our striving to create technology is to create the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9367.0s	9367.0	 kind of sensor that's actually able to hear some of the message. Maybe that's what AI is trying to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9371.5s	9371.5	 do. So I think that bridging that barrier of communication between us and cockroaches,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9379.1s	9379.1	 I think that's the biggest challenge. Interesting. Like the messages are all around us. They're here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9384.7s	9384.7	 I suspect that the alien messages are here. The aliens are here. We're just too dumb to see it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9391.8s	9391.8	 So first of all, the imagining planets where there are like just picturing like a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9398.2s	9398.2	 like a, not a silent planet, but just like a planet of alternate life forms. You know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9403.3s	9403.3	 maybe it's not something that's that we can communicate and have a conversation with,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9407.5s	9407.5	 but just like a planet of like butterflies and centipedes and weird, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9411.6s	9411.6	 unfortunate bacteria for billions of years, it was bacteria as a single cell,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9419.0s	9419.0	 prokaryotes and eukaryotes, but they're not, they're boring, but yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9423.3s	9423.3	 Yeah. But animal animals of some sort in an environment of some sort, imagine that would
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9427.9s	9427.9	 just be such an interesting, beautiful, amazing thing. And I'm sure they're out of that. I'm yeah.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9433.3s	9433.3	 The kind of viruses they got going on, but they could also not be biologically based.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9441.7s	9441.7	 That could be different chemistry. So you have to be humble to that too. Sure. But then, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9447.2s	9447.2	 depends on the day. Like I think you caught me on that day today, an optimistic one. Sometimes I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9453.9s	9453.9	 think we're all, we, this is all there is because you start, you ask that question,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9459.7s	9459.7	 that the Fermi paradox, like why aren't they here? You can't imagine an advancing civilization
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9465.7s	9465.7	 that would not be explorers because we're explorers. Why is that depressing to you? That the idea that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9474.1s	9474.1	 let's just say you found out right now that there isn't anything else. Let's just say that for,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9479.9s	9479.9	 for example sake, that the earth is the earth and the universe is the universe. And it's sort of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9484.8s	9484.8	 like the backdrop of a video game. And it's just what's out there. Would that be tremendously
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9490.6s	9490.6	 depressing to you? I think it's exciting for an engineer. It's probably exciting for an explorer,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9496.2s	9496.2	 but I would equate that to your going out hiking for three days with one match.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9502.8s	9502.8	 It kind of terrifies me that we only got one match. Really? Yeah. Really? Yeah. One, all you got is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9509.6s	9509.6	 one match. This, no, no, no, hold on a second. Hold on a second. Wait, Paul, wait, wait a minute.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9515.4s	9515.4	 You're going to, there's no more matches. This is the only match you got. No one's going to extinguish
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9522.3s	9522.3	 the planet. Like there's not, as far as we know, there's no, there's no meteor coming. I'm saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9526.0s	9526.0	 like, do you live in a, so I'm saying is that, is your worry then that we need to have a backup plan?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9531.4s	9531.4	 Yeah. Really? So like what if we do, what if we do mess it up so bad that we can't live here anymore?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9539.7s	9539.7	 Well, there's different ways to mess it up. There's ways to mess it up to make life really difficult.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9544.9s	9544.9	 Mad Max type of thing. But there's nuclear war with the further and further advancement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9553.4s	9553.4	 of technology that can destroy all of earth. It just feels like that's going to be exponentially
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9558.9s	9558.9	 growing. Yes. It's going to get worse. And that, it's, listen, I'm very optimistic,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9569.3s	9569.3	 but it's a heck of a Russian roulette we're playing. Okay. So I'm still curious about your
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9574.2s	9574.2	 intention though, or like where your passion for this comes from. Are you, is your, or maybe it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9581.0s	9581.0	 both, but is it the need to have a backup plan for humans, which is admirable for your intense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9587.9s	9587.9	 love of humanity and our consciousness and love and art and everything? Or is it also just that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9593.8s	9593.8	 the raw fascination of imagining what's out there? Because I just, the way you said that about like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9599.7s	9599.7	 oh, you caught me on a positive day where I think it's, there was some, there was something in there
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9604.1s	9604.1	 that made me think that, that you need there to be. Yeah. Yeah. There's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9614.9s	9614.9	 I think I'm the kind of person that sees beauty and everything, but to me, a universe full of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9621.0s	9621.0	 diverse life is more beautiful than one where it's just humans. It's just the earth life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9629.0s	9629.0	 Interesting. There's more beauty. I mean, I'm not egotistical about the awesomeness of humans. I like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9637.3s	9637.3	 if humans are not the smartest in our galaxy, or not even close to being the smartest.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9645.5s	9645.5	 And that to me is, I don't know, that to me is exciting about the possibility of what the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9652.6s	9652.6	 universe can create. Yes. I'm with you on that. That it's wildly exciting to, like if we found,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9660.4s	9660.4	 even if it was just a distant inkling that we found out that there is a planet that has life,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9665.7s	9665.7	 there's no communication coming from it, but we know for a fact there's stuff going on there.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9669.6s	9669.6	 It would just change how we think about our entire reality. We know now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9674.7s	9674.7	 And it could be, to me, I guess the little inkling of a thing that is depressing, if all there is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9680.9s	9680.9	 is earth and humans destroy it, then we're the coolest thing that the universe has ever created.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9692.9s	9692.9	 It's over. I'm interested to have this conversation. I'm really, I'm saying like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9697.0s	9697.0	 I would be interested to bring you to the jungle. Yeah. And now I'm also wondering, I'm wondering
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9704.2s	9704.2	 what your wilderness experience is. Because I feel like for me, I'm so earth-centric to the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9711.8s	9711.8	 point where I'm like, we differ in that for me, this is like, it's a curiosity. I feel wonder and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9717.6s	9717.6	 I feel it's fun to talk about what's at the edge of space. There's the conundrums of space time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9725.3s	9725.3	 To me, I'm like, what if the aliens are watching us or what if the aliens aren't watching us,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9730.6s	9730.6	 but what if the challenge here is we've been put on earth as the most intellectually complex
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9738.6s	9738.6	 of these creatures and we're being observed to see how we manage it. And it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9744.2s	9744.2	 we haven't made a good job of managing each other. Before Oriana went down the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9753.0s	9753.0	 they showed up and just sacked the Incas. Our history, I don't have to tell you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9757.6s	9757.6	 you've just got back. But sometimes I wonder, is there a grand narrative with what we're doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9767.8s	9767.8	 to wildlife? Because it's like, we have all these other species and we're struggling even here in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9772.3s	9772.3	 this conversation to sort of quantify. I think that most people don't think outside of the human
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9778.8s	9778.8	 framework. You know what I mean? Just driving around for me, living outside of the jungle,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9783.4s	9783.4	 even just for a few weeks, you don't even think about the fact that there's other species
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9789.8s	9789.8	 around us. We really don't day to day. You look at TV and you listen to the radio and it's not
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9795.8s	9795.8	 very consequential to the average person living in a city that there are these islands covered
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9802.2s	9802.2	 in walruses and that there's rainforests filled with birds and frogs and all these things happening
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9808.2s	9808.2	 and that the salmon are contributing to our fresh water and that life is literally given to us and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9815.4s	9815.4	 made possible by these ecological systems. To me, that's where the whole essence of my existence
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9822.3s	9822.3	 comes from. Thank you for that reminder because you're basically saying the alien civilizations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9829.9s	9829.9	 you dream about are here on earth. Those worlds are here. For me, yeah. I agree with you. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9838.4s	9838.4	 I agree with you and I think that's actually the way I think most of the time. I think I'm on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9845.4s	9845.4	 mushrooms all the time genetically somehow because when I go out in nature, it's just the beauty,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9851.8s	9851.8	 even of, I think you talk about the Amazon, man, just basics of nature fill me with awe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9860.5s	9860.5	 And the other thing that fills me with awe is our own mind, like the biology of these things
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9868.2s	9868.2	 firing, basically not our own mind, but biology of any living organisms because it's like an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9875.5s	9875.5	 ecosystem. These cells came together, they somehow function, they delegate, they mostly operate in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9881.9s	9881.9	 local way, but they, first of all, it's just like you said with the anacondas, you start out as a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9888.0s	9888.0	 tiny snake and you become giant. When you're a tiny snake, you're prey for everything. When you're a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9892.7s	9892.7	 giant snake, you're a predator or you're prey to no one. And like just that whole process,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9898.8s	9898.8	 same starting with a single embryo, single cells, human and through the embryogenic process,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9904.1s	9904.1	 constructing this giant human that's able to have limbs, move about the world, think about things,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9911.4s	9911.4	 write books and so on. Just that is incredibly beautiful and all of that is here on earth, yes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9917.9s	9917.9	 And so actually I was being sort of poetic about aliens and so on. I think I can spend 99.99%
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9925.9s	9925.9	 in terms of filling my mind with awe and beauty just looking down here on earth, for sure. I agree
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9932.6s	9932.6	 with you. Yeah, and they shouldn't cancel out. I think it's beautiful that there's people that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9937.5s	9937.5	 are fascinated and obsessed with looking out into space and that will travel there. I mean, just to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9944.1s	9944.1	 me, the idea of, I mean, I have a little piece of meteorite at home that I hold and it does amazing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9950.1s	9950.1	 things to my mind because I'm like, everything I've ever touched is from this earth and I'm holding
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9954.5s	9954.5	 this thing that's been places that we can't even think about. And it blows my mind and I love it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9959.9s	9959.9	 But when it comes to intelligence, I think it's like, I'm so concerned with the fact that we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9967.7s	9967.7	 at this moment in history. And it's interesting to me that we had the internet and now that with the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9973.2s	9973.2	 emergence of AI and more and more, I feel like we are starting to resemble like an ant colony where
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9979.8s	9979.8	 there's more and more connection and there's more and more interaction globally between everybody.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9984.9s	9984.9	 In the next 10 years, we're going to have to decide, are we going to let our ocean ecosystems
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9988.6s	9988.6	 just collapse? Are we going to just take that 3% of rainforest and just let them log the shit out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9993.2s	9993.2	 of it until it's gone? And it's like, we're going to be in a very different reality then. Then it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=9997.1s	9997.1	 going to be very dystopian future. Or can we keep the good things about earth, transcend that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10005.0s	10005.0	 realize that we have these incredible alien species around us that are animals that we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10009.8s	10009.8	 grew up with that we wouldn't be here without that we owe something to. And I feel like at that stage,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10015.9s	10015.9	 then the outward look becomes something else. It's almost like we've proven that if aliens
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10022.6s	10022.6	 came up to us, that's when I'd feel good. Aliens would come up to us and they said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10028.6s	10028.6	 Louis has the thing where he goes, God comes back and he goes, what did you do?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10032.2s	10032.2	 He goes, the polar bears are brown. He's like, I left food for you. It's like, if the aliens came
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10038.4s	10038.4	 and they interviewed the elephants and they said, how are you feeling? And the elephants would be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10042.4s	10042.4	 like, listen, fuck these little primates. You know what they've done to us? And it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10047.6s	10047.6	 I mean, I've seen people break an elephant. I've seen it all with that stuff. And it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10054.2s	10054.2	 if anybody was to ask them, they'd be screaming. And so to me, it's just, I have trouble
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10064.8s	10064.8	 looking out into space. I have trouble looking out into normal life as a human,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10068.6s	10068.6	 because I'm so concerned with trying to make sure that they're okay, because not enough people are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10072.5s	10072.5	 doing that. Oh, the interesting thing about all the development with AI and just that we're living
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10077.4s	10077.4	 more and more of our life online, I think we're actually learning what's missing when it's online.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10088.7s	10088.7	 I think people realize that online interaction is shallow, but we're just learning that that's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10095.3s	10095.3	 reality, that we need that human connection. And I think there's going to be the swing back to like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10100.9s	10100.9	 sadly, AI systems of the future might be able to live fulfilling lives online, but us humans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10109.0s	10109.0	 have to have a deep connection with Earth and like with each other, physical connection. I think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10113.9s	10113.9	 there's going to be a phase somewhere in the century where we go back to deep physical connection
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10120.1s	10120.1	 and there'll be a digital world that we visit, that it would be separate. And you have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10126.2s	10126.2	 a discussion with that, with Twitter, with Instagram, with all these social networks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10131.2s	10131.2	 that they seem to be dividing us, they seem to not be bringing happiness and you have to try to figure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10136.9s	10136.9	 out like, okay, so how do we use them in a way that does connect us, does educate us, grow our
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10145.8s	10145.8	 knowledge base, but also keeps our lives fulfilling in a deep human way that we're for good and for
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10154.1s	10154.1	 bad genetically designed, that we can't overcome, that we can't escape these meat vehicles.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10161.4s	10161.4	 Yeah, but to me that's so reassuring. We all have those friends that are like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10167.4s	10167.4	 we got to live forever and it's like, I don't know, man, do you? I don't know, is it that bad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10171.7s	10171.7	 that this is how it works, that we don't understand it? Yeah, it's often from the tech sector that you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10178.5s	10178.5	 have discussions about immortality and so on. I think that's somehow trying to escape the beauty
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10184.5s	10184.5	 of this earth for sure, that there's something to look at. Yeah, and I, perhaps like you, I'm worried
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10192.7s	10192.7	 about the unintended negative consequences of trying to escape the way things are on this earth,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10199.4s	10199.4	 because this is an incredible mechanism. How many times in the past has new technology come out that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10204.6s	10204.6	 people have hailed as blasphemy or it's not going to work or it goes against nature and now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10210.7s	10210.7	 well, heart transplants are pretty cool. Yeah. And you could say what you want about television
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10216.6s	10216.6	 and like, oh, it rots your brain. It's like, yeah, but also how many times have you sat in a room
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10221.7s	10221.7	 full of people being entertained and all laughing and interacting and eating popcorn because of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10225.9s	10225.9	 televisions there? It's not one or the other. And so I feel like with AI, we'll learn our way through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10233.0s	10233.0	 it. You know, there's a like with the, with the legged robots, especially and humanoid also. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10239.3s	10239.3	 anything on legs, four legs or two legs. I remember like the first time I interact interacted with a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10245.6s	10245.6	 legged robot. I saw magic there. Like that this too can have consciousness. This too can have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10259.9s	10259.9	 this life like quality that a human being loves about other human beings, about other living
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10268.4s	10268.4	 creatures. Now, while I'm still, I grew up in a place with no internet in a time with no internet.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10274.3s	10274.3	 So I still like biological dogs better. I noticed the magic in robotic dogs. Yeah. And it makes me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10284.1s	10284.1	 wonder the way same way. We're just talking about aliens looking up. It makes you wonder about other
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10288.4s	10288.4	 alien civilizations. Now the deep love is for dogs, for other humans, but there's still this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10295.9s	10295.9	 wander. I struggle with that. Like you said, the, the, whatever's going on in here, the idea,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10303.2s	10303.2	 and there's so much talk about the fact like at what point does an artificially intelligent
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10307.9s	10307.9	 robot become something that has, and it's like, I get, I get very uncomfortable with that. It makes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10312.7s	10312.7	 me, I don't know how to, how to handle the things. Cause I don't know enough about it probably,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10318.3s	10318.3	 but it's like, I don't know how to handle like, I don't know how to handle it. Nobody knows
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10322.6s	10322.6	 anything about it because the, it's really, everything is terrifying here. Cause it could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10329.9s	10329.9	 be as simple as consciousness is easy to fake. So what if we live in a, in a world 10 to 20 years
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10337.2s	10337.2	 from now where your toaster, there's a bunch of robots in your room that are faking consciousness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10344.3s	10344.3	 and then you fall in love with them and you have a deep connection with them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10346.9s	10346.9	 And then you actually have a deeper connection with your toaster than you do with any
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10351.0s	10351.0	 romantic human partner you've ever had. And you start to, I was, I was upset about the dogs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10357.8s	10357.8	 I was like, at least the robot doesn't take a shit on the floor. I was like, you just,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10361.9s	10361.9	 you just took it way worse. Yeah. Yeah. And then, you know, and then they, they start to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10368.6s	10368.6	 I don't know if you've seen AI porn, but it gets pretty intense. Like fully AI porn,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10374.5s	10374.5	 like they're, they're fake people. Take people that can, uh, things I've missed in the jungle.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10383.4s	10383.4	 Boy, do I have a lot to show you or not, not show you, not show you. Let me ask you about a touchy
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10389.9s	10389.9	 topic. Uh-oh. Uh, climate change. What's the effect of climate change on the, uh, on the Amazon,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10399.2s	10399.2	 maybe species diversity? What, what, what is something that people should, should think about?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10406.2s	10406.2	 Because there's different views on, um, I think most people believe that climate change is human
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10414.6s	10414.6	 caused and that it's happening, but there is different perspectives on the degree
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10421.8s	10421.8	 of damage that it's going to do over the next several decades and what our response should be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10428.6s	10428.6	 as a society. And so it would be amazing to hear your perspective on it in, in, in small
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10436.0s	10436.0	 slices of your experience or in large. To me, there's no denying the fact that we are
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10443.3s	10443.3	 experiencing changes. I think anybody that, that doesn't agree with that hasn't been outside in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10447.8s	10447.8	 the last 20 years or has an interviewed old farmers who will tell you that it changed or,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10453.1s	10453.1	 you know, it's that I think a lot of us can agree with that. Where I deviate is that I am not a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10459.0s	10459.0	 climate scientist. I am, I am not qualified. And so I just like everybody else I'm listening.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10467.0s	10467.0	 And what happens to me is I see that the, someone like Santiago Durán, JJ's father
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10473.0s	10473.0	 will tell me it's totally different than it was when I was a kid. The seasons have changed and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10478.6s	10478.6	 moved and like in New York, when I was a kid, like we used to get like white Christmas, like we used
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10484.1s	10484.1	 to get snow. We don't, I was in shorts, like I came off the plane right before coming here and I was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10489.0s	10489.0	 in like shorts for a second. Like I was like, this is a different reality, but my ability could my,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10495.4s	10495.4	 or my, my interpretation of climate change, you know, I feel like it's just as dumb as those people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10501.5s	10501.5	 that go like, you know, it's really cold. I thought they said it was getting warmer. It's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10506.2s	10506.2	 it's a very rudimentary thing. And so as a, as a someone that's fighting for the preservation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10512.0s	10512.0	 of biodiversity, I, I, I don't feel like I'm any more qualified than the average person to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10520.5s	10520.5	 I can only provide anecdotal anecdotal evidence of the stuff I've seen. What I, what I do do though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10525.8s	10525.8	 and I always, I always make a strong delineation here is that I can speak to the fact that I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10531.2s	10531.2	 been places where the ocean fisheries have been depleted and the local fishermen can tell you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10536.3s	10536.3	 and the scientists can tell you there's no more fish here. I've been to the places where the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10541.7s	10541.7	 rainforest line is being pushed back in Borneo and it's getting smaller and smaller and smaller.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10547.0s	10547.0	 And I've been in the Amazon and I've walked through the killing fields and through the fires and I've
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10551.3s	10551.3	 burnt my lungs on it. And, and I'm a big believer personally, and instead of trying to take on all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10561.8s	10561.8	 of it, I've tried very hard in my life to pick one thing. And to me, that one thing is protecting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10569.1s	10569.1	 as many wild heartbeats as I can because they're under constant fire. And so climate change, you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10575.4s	10575.4	 know, there's so much arguing over it. And like you said, the degree to which we, we affect it and,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10584.2s	10584.2	 and, and how do you, you know what I mean? Like I like to have provable data points. Like, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10588.8s	10588.8	 I can show you tropical deforestation. I can show you the decline in tigers over the last hundred
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10593.3s	10593.3	 years. I can't prove, you know what I mean? Like I can't answer that question. I don't think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10598.3s	10598.3	 probably you can better than I can. No, I think one of the criticism I'd love to get your opinion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10603.8s	10603.8	 on is one of the criticisms that somebody like Jordan Peterson provides is that the climate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10611.0s	10611.0	 is such a complex system. There's so many variables that making conclusive statements about
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10618.5s	10618.5	 what's going to happen with the quote unquote climate in the next 10, 20, 50 years is a nearly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10625.5s	10625.5	 impossible task. Therefore, as he would say, as people like Bjorn Lombard would say,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10635.0s	10635.0	 the kind of fear mongering that is done saying we should spend humongous amounts of money to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10641.6s	10641.6	 change the trajectory of everything we're doing in terms of energy, in terms of infrastructure
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10648.0s	10648.0	 and so on, in terms of how we allocate money is not justified because predicting is very difficult
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10654.3s	10654.3	 and instead it's better exactly what you're saying, which is focusing on local problems,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10659.8s	10659.8	 local saying we need to protect the Amazon. What are the things attacking the Amazon this year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10668.2s	10668.2	 in the next five years? How can we stop the deforestation? How can we stop different things?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10674.7s	10674.7	 And humans are exceptionally good at coming up with solutions for that, especially when you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10680.4s	10680.4	 put money behind it, you put attention to it, and that's the way we solve all the different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10685.4s	10685.4	 problems that are projected for the climate change in its worst case scenarios to be realized on this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10694.2s	10694.2	 earth. So that's kind of the case he would make. And I should also mention that one of the reasons
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10700.2s	10700.2	 I was fortunate enough to discover your work is first a friend mentioned that I should definitely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10706.1s	10706.1	 talk to you and I googled you and I saw that somebody recommended that Jordan Peterson
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10711.3s	10711.3	 absolutely must talk to you on his podcast. I think it was like a Reddit post.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10716.6s	10716.6	 Thank you Reddit poster. That's great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10718.6s	10718.6	 I was like, oh, interesting. And then I looked and Jordan hasn't yet. I thought my goal is for you to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10726.2s	10726.2	 talk to Rogan and to Jordan Peterson for different reasons, but for the same reason, they get
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10731.4s	10731.4	 connected to a human being that deeply cares about this earth. And I think that's probably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10736.5s	10736.5	 the right lens through which to look at the effects of climate change in terms of focusing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10743.5s	10743.5	 on the different things that are threatening the diversity of species in this most magical place
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10749.6s	10749.6	 on earth, which is the Amazon, but also as you would talk about with elephants and tigers in India
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10756.2s	10756.2	 and focusing on how to solve those problems. I don't know if there's any comment you want to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10760.2s	10760.2	 make on folks like Jordan Peterson who are sort of raising questions about how much do we really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10766.2s	10766.2	 understand about the climate? First of all, I'm such a Jordan Peterson fan and I think the guy is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10771.9s	10771.9	 heroic for a number of reasons and I find his use of language and his use of theology and the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10778.4s	10778.4	 message that he puts out wonderful. I cringe a little bit when he says, I feel like, and I might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10785.0s	10785.0	 not even be accurate on this, but I cringe a little bit when I feel like he dismisses
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10789.5s	10789.5	 that there is an ecological emergency happening right now. Now I'm not talking about climate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10796.0s	10796.0	 change specifically, but I've heard him say, environmentalists upset me and he goes, well,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10800.7s	10800.7	 what do you mean by the environment? Everything. And it sort of seems to outrage him. And I kind
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10806.4s	10806.4	 of agree with him there because, so are you telling me that we need to halt our global process and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10813.7s	10813.7	 and progress and economies and everything? I don't know. I don't know. And so, to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10821.1s	10821.1	 that doesn't bother me because he's exploring what the hell are these people talking about.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10826.4s	10826.4	 When you say, I personally have friends and students and people filling my inboxes. I have
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10832.5s	10832.5	 young kids telling me that they've become vegan and they ride a bicycle and sometimes they don't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10838.2s	10838.2	 watch TV because it uses electricity. And they're just becoming so terrified that they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10844.2s	10844.2	 killing the earth. And so it's this doomsday anti-human sentimentist thing that we're evil.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10851.4s	10851.4	 It's almost like a new religion about your evil. And so to me, it almost makes me in a totally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10859.4s	10859.4	 different camp where climate change and the right left politics, and I considered a family, I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10865.2s	10865.2	 considered Thanksgiving dinner and listened to the climate thing go back and forth. And I'm like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10872.0s	10872.0	 I'm not even here. And that might actually annoy some people in the environmental field that might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10877.8s	10877.8	 feel betrayed by me saying that, but I don't care. My job, and it's not just the Amazon. And that's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10885.5s	10885.5	 one note I wanted to make is that my career has taken place largely in the Amazon and also in India
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10892.7s	10892.7	 and now a lot in Africa, but it's not even just these exotic places either. It's people realizing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10899.0s	10899.0	 that the salmon runs in Canada and the butterfly gardens in our backyards, that there's biodiversity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10905.3s	10905.3	 everywhere. And I strongly feel like the idea of jungle keepers, the idea of stewards of nature.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10914.9s	10914.9	 And so for me, my job, my one thing, and I try to tell this to these kids that message me and that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10921.7s	10921.7	 my inboxes are full of this where they go, the climate is burning and elephants are in decline
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10926.4s	10926.4	 and tigers and this and that. Guys, look, first of all, calm down. First of all, go outside,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10932.1s	10932.1	 go get laid, do something, have fun. Next, pick something that you can affect. And it doesn't
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10938.6s	10938.6	 have to be with the environment. Do something good on earth. Go help somebody that needs food.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10944.4s	10944.4	 Go help your elderly neighbor, whatever it is. Practice with being effective at one thing.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10951.0s	10951.0	 At a time. And so for me, like I said, from those early days of sitting there with JJ on the side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10956.3s	10956.3	 of a river and going, someone has to protect this. My concern is that we've lost 70% of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10964.4s	10964.4	 wildlife on this planet in the last 50 years. That's a huge problem. Wildlife maintain the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10969.4s	10969.4	 ecosystems. And so I have a very clear cut, very definable, very measurable,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10974.5s	10974.5	 improvable thing that I'm fighting against. And it's a very, to me, it's a very like small ask.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10980.2s	10980.2	 Don't cut down the 3% of the world that has 50% of the biodiversity in it. Maybe let's keep some
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10985.4s	10985.4	 wild tigers for future generations. And because tigers have their own inherent right to exist here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10991.2s	10991.2	 That's my thing in terms of when we get to, you know, I get attacked for, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=10996.2s	10996.2	 you should be a vegan. Okay. You have me roll into a village in the Amazon when they offer me
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11004.3s	11004.3	 Spider Monkey and you tell me that I should be a vegan and you see how much they respect you. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11008.2s	11008.2	 you tell them that you're a vegan. Like, but no, so for someone like Peterson, I think it's actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11014.3s	11014.3	 good that he's first of all, telling everyone to make their damn beds and, and, and exploring
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11020.3s	11020.3	 it through a different lens. You know, he's, he's coming at it from a totally different thing and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11025.0s	11025.0	 saying, you know, are we just being alarmist here? Are we what, I mean, again, imagine if,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11030.9s	11030.9	 you know, imagine if there isn't a problem and they're, then they're making one out of it and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11035.8s	11035.8	 all the implications that that could have for progress. It's like, so I think what he's doing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11039.8s	11039.8	 is perfectly reasonable. There is a podcast though, where he's, he's, it was a great one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11045.8s	11045.8	 though, where he's, he's discussing animal intelligence. And, and I could really see that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11051.2s	11051.2	 that, you know, the human psyche and theology and religion is so much his world that, that the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11058.1s	11058.1	 really the idea of animals being intelligent was novel and it was, and it was fascinating.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11063.8s	11063.8	 Yeah, that's why I was in love with the two of you to talk just, I don't know, and hopefully I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11069.0s	11069.0	 not on a line here, but he is so focused on the human mind that I think he forgets that there's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11079.9s	11079.9	 other life out there. There's this whole machine of intelligence, of a kind of intelligence out
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11088.2s	11088.2	 there. This entire trillions of species, tiny and big, just, just moving everywhere. And we're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11098.9s	11098.9	 actually part of it. So like to look at it, at human psychology is distinct from that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11104.3s	11104.3	 is missing at least some of the picture. Some of the picture. I do believe though,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11108.6s	11108.6	 I would agree with him on that humans are unique. Human psychology is unique. We just are. But,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11114.9s	11114.9	 but I also, you know, it's, it's, he's in such an interesting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11119.6s	11119.6	 place because usually you have, you know, environmentalists who are like, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11124.3s	11124.3	 nature, nature, nature, and then you, and that's very anti-human. And then you have the other side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11129.0s	11129.0	 and it's like, he's, he's, he's on this path where he's, he's starting to explore what those like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11134.9s	11134.9	 diverse intelligences mean. And that, that to me is really amazing because I love hearing what he'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11139.9s	11139.9	 do with that. And I think also on top of that, I think if you're aware of nature, deeply aware of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11146.6s	11146.6	 nature, it gives you another perspective on the evolutionary history of humans. It's one thing to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11152.9s	11152.9	 be an evolutionary biologist and kind of study it from a like philosophical perspective. And it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11158.1s	11158.1	 the other to really, I think, experience it and deeply know it to see, I don't know, to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11164.4s	11164.4	 the fact that we came from fish, really be cognizant of that. That's something else.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11169.7s	11169.7	 That's like, I don't know, to, to realize that we're part of a computing machine that created
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11176.5s	11176.5	 intelligence. We're part, we're part of the thing that started bacteria and is now creating AI
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11184.2s	11184.2	 and, and, I don't know, Dunkin donuts. I don't know what else is impressive.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11189.8s	11189.8	 The other great human achievements.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11191.0s	11191.0	 He's the other great. I was thinking, well, what's interesting about Boston.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11194.1s	11194.1	 But I feel like we keep, we keep scratching up against this thing in this conversation that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11198.3s	11198.3	 that it's so easy. 50, I think something like 50 or more percent of the humans on this planet
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11203.5s	11203.5	 live in cities. And I think it's so easy for people to forget that we share this planet with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11211.3s	11211.3	 so many other things. And, and, and I think that that sort of, that we're, we're in a, in a way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11218.6s	11218.6	 we're almost like ecological orphans and that we've left the, the things that actually make us feel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11225.8s	11225.8	 at home. And that's a bit of a stretch because I don't know if everybody feels that way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11230.0s	11230.0	 But for me, I mean, professionally as an expedition guide, when I take people into nature,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11234.6s	11234.6	 I see what happens to them and they leave going, I mean, it doesn't have to be the Amazon. It could
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11239.8s	11239.8	 be, you know, upstate New York, but it's like, if you do it the right way, if you, if you remove
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11244.8s	11244.8	 the fear of, you know, breaking an ankle, seeing a snake, being bitten by a mosquito, all that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11249.6s	11249.6	 stuff, if you can get people to a peaceful moment and you fly fishing, a lot of times they'll take
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11256.2s	11256.2	 that moment and they'll talk about it the rest of their life. If they don't, if they don't live in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11259.2s	11259.2	 that, you know, then there's those of us who spend our lives doing that, but for a reason,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11264.1s	11264.1	 because it's the only place we feel sane. And you were kind enough to suggest that we might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11270.2s	11270.2	 travel together for a time at some point. If, if we do that, if we journey together,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11276.2s	11276.2	 where would you recommend we should go? So what I would want to show you is,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11281.4s	11281.4	 is sort of, I'd want to take you to church. I'd want to take you to, take you to,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11286.2s	11286.2	 take you to see the giant trees, take you to meet the old, the old gods, really. There's places when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11293.3s	11293.3	 you walk in off the river that are so deep in the forest, you know, and again, this is now we, we,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11299.3s	11299.3	 we do this, we have the boats, we have the Rangers, we, we protect this ecological corridor now.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11305.3s	11305.3	 And so it would be taking you to meet some of those loggers that, that we converted. It'd be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11309.1s	11309.1	 taking you, we'd have to go to the floating forest, meet some of the trees that I love the most,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11315.6s	11315.6	 go piranha fishing and like really just spend my ideal trip for you would be, would be to spend
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11324.2s	11324.2	 five days of, you know, airplane mode phone, completely living out comfortable. I'm not saying
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11332.3s	11332.3	 I don't want to, you know, I don't want to torture you. I'm saying go and live comfortably
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11336.3s	11336.3	 on an expedition in the Amazon. And that means a few days at this research station, maybe go up
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11341.2s	11341.2	 river three days and camp up here just on the edge of where the uncontacted are and then come back
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11346.8s	11346.8	 and then see the jungle keeper station. But along the way, seeing all the special sacred places,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11351.8s	11351.8	 it would be almost like saying like, let's go see, you know, all the treasures of Italy. It's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11356.6s	11356.6	 this is one of the most beautiful things on earth. And, and I've had the incredible,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11362.4s	11362.4	 almost unbelievable fortune to be responsible for protecting it. And, and I don't, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11369.8s	11369.8	 I think it's, I think it's a privilege to be able to share that with people.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11372.6s	11372.6	 And to be able to witness what this earth has created just, and it's, it's, you know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11380.1s	11380.1	 it's been just a gift just even to follow your Instagram, the window, the window you create on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11386.9s	11386.9	 this part of the world. It's just really beautiful. I do want to ask on that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11395.2s	11395.2	 And maybe it's like a behind the scenes a little bit, but like, how do you keep the equipment dry?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11400.5s	11400.5	 Like, how do you, like how hard is bringing equipment to the cameras? You're an incredible
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11408.8s	11408.8	 filmmaker and photographer. So how do you make it work? I don't know. It's not that hard. We, we,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11414.2s	11414.2	 it's not that bad. It is wet. The new iPhones are waterproof. And if they don't get, I'm telling you,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11420.7s	11420.7	 dude, it's been such a weapon. It's been awesome. If you drop it in the river, my one thing is you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11425.8s	11425.8	 got to have a tether because I drop it all the time. And so I'll be hanging off a boat and I'll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11430.2s	11430.2	 be trying to take a video and I'll be like, here we are in the Amazon. You can see the line. That's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11435.1s	11435.1	 the biggest thing. But the, the, we shoot on cannons and I don't know, it's worked out. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11441.9s	11441.9	 not that bad. Oh really? So you can keep the equipment dry. I keep the equipment dry and I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11445.8s	11445.8	 actually don't, a lot of people put their shit in silica at night and like keep it dry and then they
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11450.6s	11450.6	 take it out. And I find that when you do that, the temperature chain change creates moisture inside
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11456.1s	11456.1	 the camera. So what I do is I never do that. I just keep my cameras in my backpack with a zipper. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11462.4s	11462.4	 they're more or less exposed to the elements. And so it sort of always has a little bit of equilibrium
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11469.4s	11469.4	 and that's it. I mean, I shoot on some pretty fancy equipment sometimes and, and it's great.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11474.6s	11474.6	 But I mean, the awesome thing though now is that like with, with, with a cell phone, I mean, like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11481.0s	11481.0	 I like, I like put my phone down on the ground a few weeks ago and like let this rhino like walk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11485.2s	11485.2	 up to it and stuff. And it's like, you can get video footage that you can literally put on Netflix.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11489.7s	11489.7	 Like it's just like, it's, it's getting really exciting. And that's where like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11493.4s	11493.4	 um, right. Where I deviate from the nature people that are like, we need to go back and live in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11498.2s	11498.2	 cabins. I'm like, dude, this is awesome. And I love taking slow most like, like no way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11504.4s	11504.4	 It makes you reappreciate, but just by yourself, just reappreciate over and over and over. And then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11508.8s	11508.8	 you can also share it with the world. That's the thing is sharing it with people. There's nothing
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11512.3s	11512.3	 better than like teaching a kid to catch a fish, you know, and like, and like, and in, in a way,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11518.0s	11518.0	 Instagram has allowed us to do that where it's like, I can have this crazy moment
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11523.7s	11523.7	 that, that is so unique and then, and then put it up for people to see, you know, and, or,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11528.5s	11528.5	 I mean, I remember one of the most recent things that got people, you never know what's going to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11532.2s	11532.2	 get people excited. Um, I literally just like, there was like, you know, 3000 butterflies on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11537.0s	11537.0	 beach and they were like black, red and blue, beautiful butterflies. And I just like panned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11541.4s	11541.4	 the phone across it and then like jumped in the river and swam away and like threw that up on
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11545.5s	11545.5	 Instagram and people went berserk. They're like, this is the most amazing thing. Like four different
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11548.9s	11548.9	 accounts reached out to try and share it. And I was like, butterflies, they're everywhere. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11553.3s	11553.3	 4,000 species of butterfly in the Amazon. Like, but, but sharing that with people is beautiful.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11559.4s	11559.4	 How do you find the thing to shoot? How do you, how do you come up with the butterflies? How do you
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11563.6s	11563.6	 notice the thing that's beautiful and say, I'm going to wait a minute, like pause. This is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11569.4s	11569.4	 beautiful. Let me take a, let me, let me take a picture of this. Cause like sometimes you might
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11573.6s	11573.6	 get used to the beauty, right? Yeah. Yeah. Or like sometimes simple, crazy things like, like leaf
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11579.8s	11579.8	 cutter ants. They're just walking by. They become, it becomes pedestrian. It's like, well, I mean,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11585.8s	11585.8	 just like when you're, you know, you're living at the elephant camp and it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11588.8s	11588.8	 the elephant comes out and he starts like trashing the water bucket. We're all like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11591.8s	11591.8	 we just stop. We're trying to watch Peaky Blinders here. Just leave us alone. It becomes normal after
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11598.3s	11598.3	 a while. But no, in the, in the jungle, I don't, I don't, that's never a struggle for me because
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11605.9s	11605.9	 as a photographer, it's like, whenever my eye hits on something, I went, I've never seen that many of
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11612.2s	11612.2	 those butterflies, all the same species together. And like this, oh yeah, I'm trying to get this one
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11617.9s	11617.9	 thing that the butterflies do is in the dry season, the salt deposits, you'll get like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11623.0s	11623.0	 three or four, maybe 5,000 butterflies all coming onto this one area of sand. Cause there'll be like
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11629.0s	11629.0	 some leaching. There'll be some, some salt deposit there or something. And they'll all be wings flat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11634.2s	11634.2	 against the ground with their, with their perboscis on the sand. And if you go walk near them, they will
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11641.3s	11641.3	 vortex up and you have a rainbow vortex of butterflies and you can like go run through that.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11648.6s	11648.6	 And it's surreal. And I want to, what I want to do is get the shot where I,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11653.8s	11653.8	 I guess leave the phone recording in slow-mo facing up and leave it there for an hour,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11660.4s	11660.4	 let the butterflies come in and settle and then disturb them. So I get the bottom of the vortex
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11664.8s	11664.8	 of the bug. I'm like, these are the ways I think where I'm like, how can I show people the absolute
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11669.0s	11669.0	 mind blowing, you know, perfection? I mean, that's what I have, you know, I'm sure that somebody else
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11675.0s	11675.0	 could do it with, you know, a red and, and, and nail it. But it's like, that's what I have in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11679.6s	11679.6	 jungle because I have to travel light and I, you know, yeah, I think that, that, that really,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11684.1s	11684.1	 that works. I have the same thing when I was traveling in Ukraine. The, the equipment was
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11688.3s	11688.3	 just the suit is that suitcase over there with the foam and you just shove it full of equipment and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11693.3s	11693.3	 do the best you can. You can go to war zone. It doesn't matter. It doesn't like, uh, I, it has
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11699.1s	11699.1	 to do with the, you were talking about like, with the, like protecting your camera or not.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11704.3s	11704.3	 It feels like the more you protect stuff, the more it's going to get it damaged.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11710.3s	11710.3	 Yeah. Like, so like, see like my cameras, they're all missing. This is like, this is amazing to me.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11715.0s	11715.0	 So all my cameras are missing the, they all, how you can see the metal through the paint.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11719.8s	11719.8	 Nice. So all this. And so like, they're all because I'm constantly like, I'll like slide in and like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11724.4s	11724.4	 take a picture and like, they're banged up, but these, they're good, they're good machines.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11728.6s	11728.6	 I think they get tough over time. If you put them through, it's like the immune system.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11732.3s	11732.3	 It's like muscles. It's like David Goggins cameras. If you got it,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11735.5s	11735.5	 you got to make them suffer every day. Yeah. All right. What's your view on hunting? Um,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11742.7s	11742.7	 so you really hate poachers. I really hate poachers. How do they operate? Who are they?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11748.3s	11748.3	 What are they up to? What do they do? Poachers to me are the people that are going in and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11754.7s	11754.7	 annihilating wildlife for profit without any, you know, the people that are going in and,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11761.5s	11761.5	 and machine gunning an elephant to take its tusks. The people that are sneaking into
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11767.0s	11767.0	 protected areas in Africa and shooting rhinos so that they can cut off their horns before the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11773.4s	11773.4	 animal's even dead while its baby is beside it. So, and, and, and there's a difference between
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11780.5s	11780.5	 a poacher and a hunter. I'm a hunter. JJ's a hunter. I work with an organization called
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11788.3s	11788.3	 Vet Paw in Africa and they use United States veterans who have come back, post 9-11 veterans
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11793.4s	11793.4	 who have come back from the war and have these skills and they've been using these guys to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11799.3s	11799.3	 protect the last black rhinos, white rhinos, elephants. And so we've, I've gotten to see this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11805.8s	11805.8	 play out on a private reserve in Africa where these incredible people have decided to protect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11812.0s	11812.0	 zebras, wildebeests, all types of impala, giraffes, several herds of elephants, white rhinos,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11818.3s	11818.3	 black rhinos. All of this stuff is protected. And what's interesting is it's a hunting preserve.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11825.9s	11825.9	 And so it's been very interesting and challenging sharing my work there with the public because,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11833.1s	11833.1	 for instance, I went to a very high profile photographer recently and I said, you have to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11837.5s	11837.5	 get over here and see this. It's, it's amazing what these people have done. It's this, this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11841.3s	11841.3	 reserve called Buffalo Clouffe and they've, you know, this, this rescued families of elephants
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11846.1s	11846.1	 and they have, you can see a black rhino every day if you want to. This is, this is all, they're
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11849.4s	11849.4	 critically endangered. And it's because of the work that Vet Paw does protecting these animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11855.4s	11855.4	 from poachers. But what people don't understand is that hunting happens all the time on the reserve,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11861.9s	11861.9	 not for the elephants and the rhinos. Those are, those are special and they will never be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11866.6s	11866.6	 hunted there. But things like an impala, things like an Inyala, a wildebeest, a zebra,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11873.9s	11873.9	 there aren't as many predators as there used to be. So if you leave those animals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11880.5s	11880.5	 unhunted, you know, without the wolf to chase the herd, to thin off the ones that are old and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11885.5s	11885.5	 dying or sick, well, then you just have animals that are old and dying and sick walking around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11890.3s	11890.3	 suffering. And so on reserves like this, they hunt and they take the old ones and they use
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11896.1s	11896.1	 the funding from hunting. No one's going to pay you $30,000 to take a picture of a buffalo,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11899.9s	11899.9	 but they'll pay you $30,000 to hunt a buffalo. And so these reserves responsibly and ethically on foot
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11909.0s	11909.0	 can go hunting and manage. And again, if they, if they were hunting rhinos or if they were
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11912.8s	11912.8	 hunting elephants, I'd be out in a second. They're hunting non endangered species.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11916.7s	11916.7	 They're hunting non endangered species. They're hunting game species. And the difference is that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11920.9s	11920.9	 a poacher is going to, so those are responsible hunters that are ecologists and conservationists.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11927.2s	11927.2	 Whereas a poacher is someone that will come in and kill recklessly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11931.0s	11931.0	 and murder an animal for no reason for a part to sell.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11935.7s	11935.7	 I would love to travel together actually. So let's, we'll talk offline. I would love to make that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11942.2s	11942.2	 happen. If you allow me. I'm, I'm a hundred percent serious, man. I have tremendous respect
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11946.7s	11946.7	 for your work and I've been watching you since the beginning. I would love to do that together.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11954.1s	11954.1	 I've been, I've talked to Joe quite a bit about it. I really
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11960.0s	11960.0	 love the idea of eating the meat that I've hunted. It's mostly what I eat is meat,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11965.5s	11965.5	 not for dietary. I don't have any weird constraints on my diet and so on. I just really enjoy eating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11970.3s	11970.3	 meat. It's really good. And there is a part of me that's bothered by factory farming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11977.6s	11977.6	 Yes, sure. That it's very easily accessible meat, but there's something deeply wrong with it.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11985.0s	11985.0	 Part of the reason I love fishing and eating the fish that I catch, it just seems to be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11991.8s	11991.8	 more ethical, but also a more intimate, deep connection, honest connection with nature.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=11998.7s	11998.7	 You get to see the killing of the food that you're consuming versus removing that from the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12004.5s	12004.5	 picture. Not even thinking about it, not thinking about that this came from the meat. And yeah,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12011.1s	12011.1	 I love, I love the idea that you kill, I kill one animal and I eat that animal basically for the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12017.0s	12017.0	 whole year. Yeah. And ethically slaughtered animal, whether it's a fish or a deer or whatever else,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12023.3s	12023.3	 to me that's, oh God, I'm going to use the wrong religious term here, but there's a,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12030.2s	12030.2	 I feel like I want to use the word sacrament, but it's like there's a deeply profound ritual.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12038.2s	12038.2	 And honestly, if you teach a kid to grow a vegetable, you show a kid how to grow a carrot,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12044.0s	12044.0	 and the miracle of like, wait, I put a, this thing just grew in there, it just appeared
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12048.9s	12048.9	 because there was sunlight. And it's like, yeah, the, to me, yes, when you feel that fish tug on the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12056.2s	12056.2	 line, to me, it does something that awakens a deep primal something, this satisfaction. And then when
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12064.7s	12064.7	 you eat that, you feel good. And so I think the other thing, like sort of functionally speaking,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12071.1s	12071.1	 is that aside from the fact that I think it's one of the original, we were so disconnected,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12076.9s	12076.9	 we should be hunting, we should be gathering, walking more. I mean, look at what we discuss now,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12083.4s	12083.4	 people are like, oh, you got to get your steps in for the day. And it's like, that never used
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12086.4s	12086.4	 to be a problem. People are like, well, should we be eating animals? And it's like, what do you think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12093.6s	12093.6	 we do here on earth? I'm not sure how you got so confused, but Walmart did it to you. I don't know,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12102.4s	12102.4	 living where I've lived, from 18 to 35, I feel like I've grown up, I've lived more outside than
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12109.1s	12109.1	 I have inside. And it's just to me, showing people these things, I can see this miraculous
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12116.1s	12116.1	 wonder in their eyes when they realize that they can reach out into the world and interact with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12120.6s	12120.6	 something. And so when I hear these frantic people talking about whether or not it's right, it's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12126.9s	12126.9	 of course it is. Then again, factory farming is awful, but I try and walk the line. I'm worried
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12134.3s	12134.3	 about wild animals, I'm worried about wild ecosystems. The other thing that's important
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12141.4s	12141.4	 about hunting is that if people's livelihoods depend on salmon and elk and ocean fisheries,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12150.5s	12150.5	 well, then they'll fight to protect it naturally because it's part of their life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12154.8s	12154.8	 And if everybody's going to Burger King and everybody's getting chicken wrapped in plastic,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12160.8s	12160.8	 they forget that the fish are there because they're too busy watching sitcoms. And so then
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12165.1s	12165.1	 when the conglomerate comes in and builds a dam, nobody really cares. And then you just end up with
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12170.7s	12170.7	 a few hippies and signs standing next to the river and it becomes silly. We forget the meaning.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12177.7s	12177.7	 You mentioned that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12181.0s	12181.0	 ayahuasca reveals the darkness that's there in the jungle. There's beauty, but there's darkness. So
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12193.8s	12193.8	 what is it that ayahuasca reveals? What is the heart of darkness?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12198.6s	12198.6	 Fuck, it opens the heart of darkness right up. I'm going to show you a picture of our shaman and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12204.2s	12204.2	 and then I'm going to ask if you want to do ayahuasca here, not here in that sense. It can
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12209.1s	12209.1	 only be done in the jungle. Anybody that tells you, I've heard people be like, oh, I did ayahuasca in
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12213.0s	12213.0	 Brooklyn last week. And I'm like, no, you didn't. I actually told that to my native friends. I went,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12218.0s	12218.0	 hey, guess what? I said, a bunch of gringos keep thinking they're doing ayahuasca in Brooklyn. And
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12222.1s	12222.1	 they were like howling laughing. They're like, you can't do it outside the jungle. And I was like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12226.1s	12226.1	 exactly. I've never done ayahuasca. I've done or eaten whatever mushrooms. It's a wonderful
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12234.2s	12234.2	 experience. I think it's wonderful. But ayahuasca. Oh man. Yeah. See, I had done mushrooms. I thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12241.6s	12241.6	 I was like, okay. And I, I, I, yeah, I was like, I got this. I had my notebook. I was like, I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12246.4s	12246.4	 going to journal a little bit, you know, and then, but, but you quickly, I quickly, quickly realized
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12252.4s	12252.4	 how out of my depth I was and how unprepared I was for what was happening. Cause you sit in a circle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12257.2s	12257.2	 with these native guys and there's one, you know, he's got the feathers and he's old and he's got a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12261.1s	12261.1	 face like the map of the world. And he's, he's smoking this fat old tobacco thing. And he calls
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12267.4s	12267.4	 you forward and you kneel before him and you're going, is it too late to back up? And everyone's,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12273.7s	12273.7	 you know, there's one candle and he blows smoke over the, over the cup and he hands it to you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12279.4s	12279.4	 And you're like, again, it's these, it's these, it's these like these things that you can't argue
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12284.6s	12284.6	 with. It's these facts. So you're like, as soon as this goes down, I'm gone. I know it. And this is
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12289.8s	12289.8	 a moment in my life that I, I have to either embarrass myself in front of everybody or I'm
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12294.3s	12294.3	 going forward with this and dish. And then I went and sat and you're sitting in the dark and it's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12301.9s	12301.9	 again, so we're, we're on a platform with a, with palm thatched roof and the jungle is all around
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12307.5s	12307.5	 you. So all those million, tens of millions of frogs and insects are, and I'm like, all right,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12313.0s	12313.0	 cool. And I remember I like, you know, like I tried to like light a cigarette or something and I went,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12318.5s	12318.5	 oh, that's not going to happen. You know, and then I, and I, I put my hands on the floor and like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12323.8s	12323.8	 my experience, I mean, like we've done mushrooms, you know, it's like, it's, it's interesting. It's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12328.4s	12328.4	 introspective. No, this, this was like somebody unzipped the universe. I, I, you know, I spent a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12335.0s	12335.0	 lot of without boring people with it. I spent a lot of time in, in, in like unconstructed dream
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12341.1s	12341.1	 space, like floating between nebulas. Like there was a long period where there was no physical shape
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12347.8s	12347.8	 where I lived without a name. And like, so it's like, it's like, you get brought so deep down,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12351.9s	12351.9	 so elementally lost in the universe where like, I truly felt like I was experiencing moving through
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12358.8s	12358.8	 places like, like that, like that, like that asteroid that I have, like it's, it's like a piece
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12365.8s	12365.8	 of your piece of something detached from the earth. And so I got back from it and had a, had an
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12375.6s	12375.6	 interesting new appreciation for life. I strongly suggest that people just do mushrooms like a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12381.4s	12381.4	 normal person, unless you're, unless you're ready. It was really intense. It was really intense,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12386.1s	12386.1	 but to be fair, the shaman who did it was like the old school guy. Yeah. And he was, he was getting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12392.0s	12392.0	 up there in years and he had forgotten and overboiled the brew. Yeah. And so we came back and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12396.4s	12396.4	 it was like four in the morning and I had, you know, all this crazy shit. I'd been on journeys
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12401.0s	12401.0	 and years down there. And so when I came back and I had like hands, I started crying. I started
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12404.9s	12404.9	 absolutely weeping gratitude or gratitude that I was alive. I was going to get to see my people
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12409.1s	12409.1	 again. I was like, I'm going to see my parents again. I'm going to get to talk to you. I thought
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12413.6s	12413.6	 you might've be gone. I was gone. I was gone. I was, I was, I was a dimly conscious something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12419.9s	12419.9	 floating in dark space and spent what felt like years down there. And so when I, I really did
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12425.4s	12425.4	 feel like being reborn, which I was like cheap trick, like, yeah. But no, the, the, the, the,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12431.5s	12431.5	 the way it moves you through the jungle, the way the jungle moves through your skin,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12435.8s	12435.8	 there are moments of absolute majesty and incredible discovery that happened along the way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12443.2s	12443.2	 And on the way up, the jungle brings you up and the shaman brings you up and, and you get to move
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12448.5s	12448.5	 through the forest in a way that it's almost like you're inhabiting the consciousness of animals.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12455.0s	12455.0	 Very, very, very like, I didn't think that hallucinogenics could do this to a brain,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12460.0s	12460.0	 you know, mushrooms. You're like, Oh, I can, I feel like I can feel music. Like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12463.4s	12463.4	 it's cool. You know, you guys want to watch March of the Penguins.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12467.8s	12467.8	 This is transformative. Like what did that, did that change you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12472.2s	12472.2	 I don't know. I think it definitely, it definitely,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12476.7s	12476.7	 I almost feel like it showed me the thing that I was scared the most of. And it's that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12481.8s	12481.8	 it was like, that it's all just cold, dark, nothing. It like brought me to like the basement of the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12486.2s	12486.2	 universe. And I felt like the point of that was to, to come back to this place where there's all
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12492.5s	12492.5	 this life and light and love and, and all this amazing stuff that we experience on a day-to-day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12498.7s	12498.7	 basis and don't take for granted. And so just like almost dying, this was like fully dying,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12503.7s	12503.7	 like they're, you know, but the great part is, is that usually it's not that intense. This guy had
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12509.4s	12509.4	 overboiled the brew. He'd also, I saw the vine afterwards. Most ayahuasca vines are like as thick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12514.7s	12514.7	 as your arm. This one was like as thick as a garbage can. It was like the oldest ayahuasca vine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12519.8s	12519.8	 you can imagine. And at like four in the morning, I like crawled over to my friend Chris, who's a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12525.2s	12525.2	 tough New York city firefighter. And we were like holding each other, just like weeping, just like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12529.0s	12529.0	 thank God we're back. And then we had to go looking for the shaman. Where the hell is this guy? He's
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12535.3s	12535.3	 gone. We found him in the morning and he was laying in the stream naked, like ET at the end,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12540.1s	12540.1	 when he's like laying like in the, yeah, he, he kicked his own ass with that brew
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12544.9s	12544.9	 and he retired after that. So we really got like, we, somebody turned the dial all the way up on us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12552.2s	12552.2	 And so we got, we got blasted. So it's not supposed to be that bad.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12556.7s	12556.7	 But I think you're somebody who's fearless in sort of diving into those kinds of places.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12563.0s	12563.0	 I think I also retire from ayahuasca. I could be fearless with other things, but
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12566.8s	12566.8	 I think I'm good. It sounds kind of, to me personally, kind of exciting.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12575.3s	12575.3	 Why I think, I think that you have a severely fearless aspect to you. I mean, you're,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12580.8s	12580.8	 when you come up with something that intrigues you, like if somebody told you right now that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12584.1s	12584.1	 you could go physically into deep space, I feel like you would do it. Yeah. Yeah. If, if go to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12591.4s	12591.4	 Mars. Yeah. Right. And some of it is, I don't even know if you have that. Some of that is more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12600.7s	12600.7	 Goggins like I want to see where my mind breaks by pushing it to tough places. There's a curiosity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12611.9s	12611.9	 of exploring the mind, the limits of the mind. I feel like you're not a cold plunge. That's like,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12616.2s	12616.2	 you're not coming back. Right. Right. And it's, it's okay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12622.6s	12622.6	 See, no, I have, I do. I have, I'm with you on that. I love seeing my limits. I absolutely
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12628.9s	12628.9	 love seeing my limits. I love getting my ass kicked. I love being shown how insignificant I am. But
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12634.1s	12634.1	 when it comes to something like that, where you got to push your chips in, it's got to be something
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12637.8s	12637.8	 for me. It's got to be a hill that I believe in before I die on it. And it's like, like to me,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12644.1s	12644.1	 the promise of exploring space isn't enough, but like even just the way, I mean, you said,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12649.9s	12649.9	 you're like, I'm going to Ukraine. Here I go. You know, there, there's a certain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12658.3s	12658.3	 dedication to, to curiosity at any expense. And I think that that is something that maybe we
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12667.1s	12667.1	 share in very, in different directions. Something tells me with those, with those,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12673.6s	12673.6	 with those crocodiles outside, I would have gotten eaten. Something tells me there's some,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12679.5s	12679.5	 something trying to preserve you in this world. I'm not sure exactly what that is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12683.4s	12683.4	 Somehow you keep surviving. What do you think is the meaning of this whole thing?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12687.0s	12687.0	 Why are we here? Like, do you ever ask yourself that question? I feel like that's every day.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12693.6s	12693.6	 I feel like I'm someone that lives with that a lot. And I think that, I think that it actually
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12698.1s	12698.1	 takes me away from the human world a little bit. I feel like I've always been a little bit apart
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12703.4s	12703.4	 because I think that other people do, you know, mushrooms and they go, wow,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12710.8s	12710.8	 I really made me think about how amazing it is here. And I feel like on a daily basis,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12717.3s	12717.3	 I find myself where I'm like, I can't believe that any of this is possible. You know, I, I,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12722.7s	12722.7	 and that, and that goes, that goes from how delicious something tastes to being able to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12727.9s	12727.9	 talk to, to, to, to someone in your family or, or have a phone. There's times where I'm in the
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12733.4s	12733.4	 Amazon and I, I miss home and I even just FaceTiming with someone. I go, this is possible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12738.1s	12738.1	 Yeah. Like people were rubbing sticks together, just trying to survive saber-toothed tigers,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12741.8s	12741.8	 not that long ago. And I'm over there like, yo, mom, look at this. It's wild. Like I'm in a
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12747.2s	12747.2	 constant state of awe. And so I actually hope that this is, that this is a testing ground
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12758.8s	12758.8	 and whether it's aliens or God or whatever it is, that, that this is all, that this is, that this
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12763.9s	12763.9	 is, that this is something crucially important. That would be nice because it feels like it is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12770.6s	12770.6	 Yeah. I hope that too, that the universe almost created us to see
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12776.6s	12776.6	 what's possible and that I'd like to believe that beauty and good is possible.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12784.6s	12784.6	 And, and those are the things that make me say that it's not, it's impossible for it to just
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12789.5s	12789.5	 mean nothing. And I'm very, and just like you said, there could be life forms that,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12794.0s	12794.0	 that we can't even understand. There could, there, there are, there are, I'm very open to the idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12799.4s	12799.4	 that there's meanings that we have no idea about. The, the few things I know are the things that I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12804.2s	12804.2	 love and some of the things that I love, you know, are being pushed to extinction. So I try to
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12809.3s	12809.3	 protect them, but that's, that's, that's, that's, that's my mission. But I'm saying like, in terms
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12813.9s	12813.9	 of what are we doing here? I'm, I'm just always, always amazed at the, at the simplest things. I
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12822.2s	12822.2	 mean, the, you know, that we can sit here doing this exchanging. Yeah. Using our imagination,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12828.7s	12828.7	 to fill in the gaps, exchanging feelings, experiences, images. Yeah. It fills you with awe.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12835.7s	12835.7	 And every once in a while you get a little glimpse of something like a deeper meaning that might be
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12840.2s	12840.2	 there. You know, you don't, you don't really know what it is, but you get a glimpse every now and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12844.6s	12844.6	 then you keep searching. And then it's over before you know it, Paul, hopefully for you.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12849.8s	12849.8	 You got many more years. It was dark, man. You're an important, important and a beautiful man.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12854.6s	12854.6	 Paul, thank you so much for talking today. Thank you for being cool. You always have been.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12858.7s	12858.7	 You are for everything you're doing. I hope to see you again soon, many times,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12863.0s	12863.0	 and maybe one day soon in the jungle. I hope that happens. Thank you, Lex.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12867.7s	12867.7	 Thanks for listening to this conversation with Paul Rosalie. To support this podcast,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12871.4s	12871.4	 please check out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from Jane
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12877.3s	12877.3	 Goodall. If we kill off the wild, then we're killing off a part of our souls.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gPfriiHBBek&list=UUSHZKyawb77ixDdsGog4iWA&index=1&pp=iAQB&t=12884.0s	12884.0	 Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
